  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Wednesday April 23rd, 2014

Wednesday April 23rd, 2014

Follow @vanguardngrnews

Breaking News

  * Download vanguard Newsstand APP\( IOS, ANDROID, BB10\)



TRANSLATE:::

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Technology
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Reps vs Okonjo-Iweala
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Crisp Shots
    * Tonye Princewill
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * My World
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Vista Woman
    * Nigeria Today
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith



# Nigeria sends 700 soldiers to maintain peace in Liberia

on March 20, 2014   /   in News 6:40 pm   /   Comments

Tweet

Kaduna \(Kaduna State\) – The General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Tamunomieibi Dibi, said 700 officers and soldiers would be deployed to Liberia on peace keeping mission.

Dibi announced this at the graduation of the troops from Pre-deployment Training at the Nigerian Army Peace Keeping Centre \(NAPKC\), Jaji in Kaduna State on Thursday.

The GOC, represented by Brig.-Gen. Abubakar Maikobi, said they would depart for Liberia on Friday.

Dibi warned that the Nigerian Army would not accept any situation where its troops were seen as soft targets due to carelessness or cowardice.

According to him, the Rules of Engagement in the mission have given the soldiers the latitude to exhibit bravery and fight like professional soldiers.

It adds that they protect themselves and the law abiding civilians in the mission area.

He also urged the troops to respect the culture and religion of the people of Liberia, and reminded them of the United Nation’s zero tolerance for drug trafficking.

  
Commandant of NAPKC, Maj.- Gen. Sanusi Muazu, said the troops had benefited from the mission specific training which would enable them operate under general and unique conditions obtainable in Liberia.

The Commanding Officer of 192 Battalion, Lt.- Col. Mohammed Ahmed, leader of the troops to Liberia, assured that they would perform their assigned task professionally. \(NAN\)

    Print       Email

NEXT ARTICLE →  
Senate mandates 4 committees to probe killings across the nation

← PREVIOUS ARTICLE  
Reps urge acting CBN governor to investigate alleged “bribe for new Naira notes”

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

  *   *     * MOST COMMENTED
    * RECENT COMMENTS

  *   * ## E-editions

  *   *   *   *   * 


  * ## Latest News

    * 7:01 am Police investigate plot to bomb Abuja mosque
    * 6:45 am Abacha fired me because of Obasanjo, Yar’Adua – Gambo Jimeta
    * 4:20 am Policeman rapes, impregnates pastor’s 13-yr-old daughter
    * 3:42 am Nigerian Muslim clerics recruiting Boko Haram members – Cameroon Govt
    * 3:41 am We’ll survive Boko Haram attacks — Shettima
    * 3:00 am 2015: Tinubu has no plans to impose any candidate, says Lagos APC
    * 2:42 am Unemployment in Nigeria, a time bomb — PENGASSAN
    * 2:30 am Agbakoba sues A-G, NASS to court over Marriage Act
    * 1:08 am Telecom activities may keep Nigeria’s rebased GDP green
    * 1:00 am SUSPECTED RITUALIST DEN:17 suspects arraigned over attack on Police officer’s house
    * 1:00 am Obiano to his exco members: You must be ICT compliant
    * 12:59 am Farmer forges signatures, steals N2m from bank
    * 12:57 am Riverine communities cry out over dearth of infrastructure
    * 12:56 am Fayose vows to restore education varsity
    * 12:56 am Aregbesola, Adeleke, others at Oyinlola’s Easter party in Okuku
View all →
  * ## Confab Debate

    * ### C’ttee sessions begin at confab, summon Okonjo-Iweala, CBN gov, others

DELEGATES at the ongoing National Conference, yesterday, broke into committee sessions with the Publ

    * ### Ozekhome advocates establishment of S-Courts for states

    * ### There’re 500 illegal under ground petrol tunnels in Bama — Gyang

    * ### NNPC is a cult —Nwobodo

  * ## Citizen Reports

    * ### Citizen stories: Report news as it breaks near you\!

Vanguard invites its numerous readers to be part of our citizen journalism initiative. You can send

  * ## Editorial

    * ### Nyako: Emergency Patriot

    * ### Hard to be happy

  * ## Cartoon

    * ###  Christ’s Teachings 

View more →

  *   * Tweets about "@vanguardngrnews"




## Talking Point

  * ### Where is the Nigerian leader?

IN line with the spirit of the times, this column has of late taken an interrogative tone. The ...

Read More →




## People & Politics

  * ### Living among demonic enemies

NIGERIA is a sad country to live in. This is because we are living in the midst of demons. Horn...

Read More →




## Dispatches from America

  * ### United States of Guns

THE US human population is about 315 million. And the US gun population is about 313 million. S...

Read More →




## Features

  * ### Osun: When the language of development is empowerment

IMAGINE\! Omisore flagged off his campaign here \(Freedom Park\) and he had the nerve to say Aregb...

Read More →




## Insurance and You

  * ### ‘NAICOM should restrict compulsory insurance where supervision is possible’

IF the National Insurance Commission, NAICOM,hopes to achieve success in the implementation of ...

Read More →




## Bus Stop Parliament 

  * ### Our leaders are insensitive\!

‘HOW could these people feel comfortable going about their normal businesses with this fire r...

Read More →




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance &You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall
  * Facing the Ka'aba



  * LifeStyle
  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is it Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



  * Columns
  * Monday
  *   * Sport Bassey
  * People & Politics
  * Rational Perspectives
  * Sobowale on Business
  * Broken Links
  * Tuesday
  * Femi Aribisala
  * Tuesday Platform
  * Dispatches from America
  * Wednesday
  * Talking Point
  * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
  * For Crying Out Loud



  * Thursday
  * People & Politics
  * Is'haq Modibbo Kawu
  * The Hub
  * Friday
  * Sweet & Sour
  * Lipstick
  * My Layman's View
  * Tentacles
  * Onochie Anibeze
  * Saturday
  * The Passing Scene
  * Trends in Politics
  * Matters Arising
  * Marriage and Family
  * Hope & Possibilities Ride
  * My World



  * Sunday
  * Frankly Speaking
  * Sunday Perspectives
  * The Orbit
  * Outside Looking In
  * Vista Woman
  * Nigeria Today
  * Moment to Moment
  * Article of Faith



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



© 2014 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria
