Posts | Comments | E-mail / 

# Nigerian News - PM News Nigeria - First with Nigerian News

PM News First with Nigerian News | Published since 1994

  * Home
  * News
    * Today's Headlines
    * Metro
    * National
    * World
    * Campus
    * Features
  * Sports
    * Football
    * Tennis
    * Basketball
    * Golf
    * Boxing
    * Other Sport
    * World Cup 2010
  * Entertainment
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * International Film
    * Concerts & Events
    * Television & Radio
  * Lifestyle
    * Fashion
    * Health & Fitness
    * Relationships
    * Adventure
    * Education
    * Encounter
  * Multimedia
    * Video
    * Photo News
  * Business
    * Stock Markets
    * Commodities
    * Business News
    * International
    * Entrepreneurs
  * Politics
  * Columns
    * Men’s Grooming by Amara
    * Women’s Grooming by Amara
    * Barricade by Kayode Ogundamisi
    * Love & Life by Aidy Thomas
    * Health Talk by Dr. Rotimi Adesanya
  * Editorial
  * Opinions
    * Interviews


  * Directory
  * Dating
  * Classifieds



New to PM? 
  * Register
Already a Member? 
  *   * Log in



## Defence HQ Launch Skills Acquisition In Barracks

   print

Author: pmnews Date: Mar 8th, 2011. | Category: National, News. | Follow comments: RSS 2.0. | You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed. | 

The Defence Headquarters,DHQ, today, at the 2 Amphibious Brigade Headquarters, Bori Camp Barracks, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Southsouth Nigeria, launched skills acquisition programme for 600 trainees drawn from the Army officers’ Wives Association, women and youths from the host Communities of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area.

The programme was declared open by Major General Azugaku Tsota Umuru, Director of Administration, Defence Headquarters, on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff, Air Marshall Oluseyin Petinrin.

He said the main objective of the programme is to train wives of officers, men and members of the host communities.

He explained that the programme was actually initiated in 2008.

He advised participants to take the programme seriously as it could turn out to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

He said that training would run from March 7 to 18 with focus on ten key areas. They include: Catering \(Fast food\), Photography, Soap making, Hair making, Allied Agriculture, Information technology, Heat transfer and others.

The Chairman of Obio/Akpor local Government Council, Prince Paulinus Nsirim, at the occasion commended the Defence Headquarters for conceiving the programme that would have a positive impact on the lives of the people of his local government area.

He advised trainees to make use of the opportunity and pledged that the council would collaborate with the DHQ in any way it that would help actualise the aim of the programme.

Ken Ahukanna, managing Director of Hedgworth Pro-consult, the consulting company later told PMNEWS that the trainees were given a free hand to choose any of the skills they want to acquire.

He commended the enthusiasm of the trainees and appealed to them to be focused and attentive to their teachers and trainers so that they can acquire enough skills that would make them self-reliant and contribute to the welfare of their immediate families.

Meanwhile, the Chief of Army staff Lt. General Onyeabor Azubuike Ihejirika was anxiously being awaited by officers and men of the 2 Brigade Headquarters, Port Harcourt.

At the time of filing this report, he had left 343 Artillery Regiment and 5 Battalion, Elele Barracks in Ikwerre Local Council Area of the state.

—Okafor Ofiebor/Port Harcourt

Share this news: These icons link to social bookmarking sites where readers can share and discover new web pages.

  *   *   *   *   *   *   *   * 


  


  


##### Related Topics:

  * » Appeal Court Finally Sacks Senator Emordi
  * » Robbers Kill 3 Policemen, 2 Others
  * » Pasuma’s Reality Show Debuts
  * » Rivers Civil Service Union Suspends Exco
  * » Council Boss Warns Against Drainage Blockage



### Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.

Name \(required\)

Mail \(will not be published\) \(required\)

Website

Advertisement

### Related Categories

  * News

\(5521\)

    * Today's Headlines

\(1458\)

    * Metro

\(2219\)

    * National

\(2101\)

    * World

\(204\)

  * Photo News

\(128\)

  * Business News

\(297\)




### Archives by Tag

Abuja Acn Action Congress of Nigeria Alhaji Babatunde Babatunde Fashola Babatunde Raji Fashola Crime Cross River State efcc Fifa World Cup Financial Crimes Goodluck Jonathan Government Area House Of Assembly Ibrahim Babangida Independence Anniversary Independent National Electoral Commission INEC Lagos Lagos Island Lagos Nigeria Lagos State Lagos State government Lagos State Nigeria Lagos State Of Nigeria Lcda Local Council Magistrates Court News Agency Of Nigeria Niger Delta Nigeria Football Nigerians Ogun State oyo state PDP Peoples' Democratic Party Pmnews Police Command Port Harcourt President Goodluck Jonathan President Jonathan Publicity Secretary Rivers State Traditional Rulers

### Recent Entries 

  * Lagos Receives Vehicle For Malaria Prevention
  * LENTEN PERIOD: Fashola Urges Christians To Seek God’s Face For Successful General Elections
  * Defence HQ Launch Skills Acquisition In Barracks
  * Adeola, ACN Stalwarts Escape Death
  * University Don Decries Marginalisation Of Women In Nigeria’s Politics
  * Aregbesola Reads Riot Act Against Electoral Violence, Bloodshed
  * Ladoja Berates Akala Over Projects Execution
  * 84-Year Old Hunchback Murdered
  * Campaign Concert: Banky W, Weird MC Storm Alausa
  * I’m Tired Of Crime, Suspect Freed By Court After Plea



  


### Find Us Elsewhere

  * P.M. Facebook Profile
  * P.M. Tweets
  * P.M. YouTube Videos
  * P.M. Picasa Web Albums
  * P.M. RSS Feed



### Photo Gallery

  * Gov Fashola Commissions Digital Mapping/Geographic Information System Project
  * Images From Rivers State
  *   * GOV. FASHOLA, TOKOYA, ADEGBOLA, DOSUNMU, RANDLE AT LAGOS GOVERORSHIP DEBATE
  * Lagos State Scout Council Holds Solidarity Rally For Gov. Fashola’s Second Term
  * Gov. Fashola Grants Interview To Journalists
  * Photos: Summit On Free & Fair Elections



  * News
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Lifestyle
  * Multimedia
  * Business
  * Politics
  * Columns
  * Editorial
  * Opinions



  * About Us  |
  * Classifieds  |
  * Contact Us  |
  * Custom RSS  |
  * Directory  |
  * MyStreets  |
  * Sitemap  |
  * RSS

Log in
