  * Opinion
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates
  * Play Games



Sunday, May 29, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * \#PanamaPapers
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Interviews and Profiles
    * Opinion
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch
  * Letters



## Major shake-up in Nigerian Army, 334 top officers redeployed

July 30, 2015Nnenna Ibeh

Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai

### Related News

The Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, has approved the redeployment and appointment of 334 officers to various units across Nigeria.

The officers appointed include some Principal Staff Officers at Defence and Army Headquarters, Corps Commanders and General Officers Commanding as well as other commanders, army spokesperson, Sani Usman, said.

Some of the senior officers appointed include 37 Major Generals, 57 Brigadier Generals, 128 Colonels and several Lieutenants Colonels among many others.

Some affected commands are the General Officers Commanding 1, 2, 3, 81 and 82 Divisions, Operations Pulo Shield and Safe Haven of Niger Delta and Plateau States respectively.

Among these principal officers, Major General MA Koleoso was appointed Commander TRADOC; Major General SN Muazu was moved from 2 Division to Headquarters, Infantry Corps and appointed Commander; Major General MT Ibrahim moved from Department of Army Standard and Evaluation to Nigerian Defence Academy as Commandant.

Also, Major General LKJ Ogunewe is now the Chief of Policy and Plans, Major General FO Alli, is now Chief of Training and Operations and Major General AA Salihu, Chief of Logistics.

Others are Major General AG Okunola now Commander of Operation PULO SHIELD \(JTF\) and Major General TC Ude, Commander, OPERATIONS SAFE HAVEN \(STF Jos\).

Major General LW Wiwa is now Deputy Commandant of Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre while Major General A Oyebade is now the General Officer Commanding 1 Division.

Major General LC Ilo, is now General Officer Commanding 2 Division; Major General H Umaru, General Officer Commanding 3 Division; Major General IH Edet, General Officer Commanding 81 Division and Brigadier General Ibrahim Attahiru is now Acting General Officer Commanding, 82 Division.

Brigadier General AT Hamman is now the Acting Provost Marshal; Brigadier General LF Abdullahi, Acting Commander, Nigerian Army Education Corps while Colonel R Abubakar is Acting Director, Defence Information amongst others. 

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

Text Ad:Before Now My Husband Had a Small Manhood and Could not Last More than 2 Minutes, now the story has changed. Click here to read our testimony.

* * *

### More in Top News

  * ###  Nigerian Government announces agreement with Niger Delta militants 

  * ###  Full Text: President Buhari’s Democracy Day message to Nigerians 

  * ###  How we plan to end hardship in Nigeria — Buhari 

  * ###  UEFA Champions League Final \(LIVE UPDATES\): Real Madrid battle Atletico Madrid in Milan 

  * ###  Fayose urges dialogue in resolving Niger Delta crisis 

  * ###  Residents cry out as soldiers invade Delta community 




### Top News

  * ###  Nigerian Government announces agreement with Niger Delta militants 

  * ###  Full Text: President Buhari’s Democracy Day message to Nigerians 

  * ###  How we plan to end hardship in Nigeria — Buhari 




  * Hah\!

.. Where is B. General Olajide Laleye?

    * Tunji Olarewaju

Forgive my ignorance:who is he?

      * Hah\!

He is the un-gentlemanly officer who proclaim that he Nigerian army does not have the original copy PMB WAEC result, which was later denied by the same Institution he claimed to be speaking for.

        * share Idea

Please can you post a link where the army denied that they never had a record of PMB certificate. Please don’t try to reopen an old wound.

          * Hah\!

The wound has healed, but the scar remains. That Olajide Laleye deserve to be retired from his rank.

  * Trutherman

Why all these major generals and brigadiers? I bet even the U.S. does not have these many generals. On what basis are thy promoted to general when they have not fought in any war? Nigerian major generals and brigadiers receive their full salaries for life upon retirement, and that costs he nation billons of dollars annually. That’s why they have no money left to purchase weapons. Hundreds of generals none of whom can face Boko Haram. This is the height of corruption. On an average daily basis, Nigerian soldiers do not do anything. Just shine the tip of their shoe for inspection, report to ‘work’, go home. What ‘work’ do they do? Simply to maintain he huge military barracks and office. Totally useless the nation. Very unfortunate. We should learn from Japan who, after World War II, did not maintain a standing army until recently.

    * chidi

Who are you, just keep quiet if don’t know anything, every appointment has a rank to fill that space in any army, you want a captain to fill a major general space and formulate policy your ignorant of what your saying, in aspect of Boko Haram why don’t you volunteer as local vigilante to support the troops

    * share Idea

It thought it was corruption that was causing them not to buy weapons according to your current clueless Leader during the tenure of patriotic leader GEJ. Nigeria we hail thee

    * salisurabeh

Japan did not maintain a standing army because the country was defeated in the Second World War and surrendered to the allied forces in 1945, and under the terms of surrender it was forbidden to maintain an army until after 50 years. Always get your facts before you comment.

No country in the World worth its salt will do away with military.

By the way, America has ten times more brigadiers and Major generals than Nigeria.

  * Federalist2015

Almost all the senior officers from one section. Simple equation reflects the exact picture: NA\(Nigerian Army\)= NA\(northern Army\)=HF\(Hausa Fulani\). 

    * Aminu

The postings also inc lude Gen eral Tompolo to creeks, General Asari to bonny Island General Nmandi Kanu to Biafran region and other officers at Ladipo spare parts market in Lagos will also be posted to Biafra region.Stupid when other ethnic groups are serving their fatherland in the military ur kinsmen are either in the creek vandalising pipes, crude theft,Kidnapping Armed robbery,Baby factory or selling spare parts and agitating for SE &SS Republics.

      * Federalist2015

You forgot to mention that my kinsmen are busy killing, maiming. abducting and raping in the north in the name of Allah. 

  * Proud Yoruba

Fight Boko Haram, not your underlings\!

  * baron

PUBLIC NOTICE:PUBLIC NOTICE:PUBLIC NOTICE:

A Genuine Massage From The Nigeria Defence Academy Kaduna Headquarters To All Nda Candidate Both Male And Female Applicants Of The 2015/2016 For 67th Regular Course:  
Parents And Guidance, If You Need Help Or Back Up For Your Son Or Daughter To Get Admission Into Nda, Contact Major MAJ-GEN.ELIJAH 07034671879 Who Have Already Volunteered To Help Your Children To Get This Admission Easily Into The Nigeria Defence Academy, Especially Those Who Have Been Writing This Nda Exam For Years And Those Who Actually Ran Into Some Of This Impersonator’s Online Or On Internet Claiming To Be Working In The Nda Office And At The End This Imposters Succeeded In Taken Your Hard Earn Money Without Any Result At The End, But This Year We Say No To It, Enough Of It.  
It Is Because We Have Had Several Complains And This Is Why We Have Come To A Conclusion That If You Need Any Help In Regards To The Admission Processing. It Is Advisable To Contact MAJ-GEN.ELIJAH 07034671879 In The Nigerian Defence Academy Admission Board, Kaduna Headquarters On: 07034671879




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 10,784 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

* * *

### LETTERS

  * LETTER: ‘UNILAG graduate with 5.00 CGPA deserves national honour’

  * LETTER: ‘Buhari lied, Sokoto has no Federal Permanent Secretary’

  * T.B Joshua releases alarming 2016 predictions


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us



All content is Copyrighted © 2015 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
