Skip to content

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Search for:

Sunday 26 August

Sunday 26 August

Follow @vanguardngrnews

## Vanguard News

A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Nigeria news, Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc

Search for:

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Sports
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
    * Motoring
  * Entertainment
  * Allure
  * Videos
  * Editorial
  * Viewpoint
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Article of Faith
    * Talking Point
    * People & Politics
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * My World
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * Nigeria Today
    * Vista Woman
  * Relationships



More

Breaking News

Translate

# 23 cultists, 15 vandals in trouble

On April 21, 20185:26 pmIn Crime Alert, Crime Guard, News by adekunleComments

The Nigerian Army has arrested 23 suspected cultists, who were conducting physical training for new recruits and initiation and involved in robbery and kidnapping.  
SUSPECTED CULTISTS—Suspected cult members paraded by the Second Brigade of Nigerian Army in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, yesterday. Photo: NAN.  
The army also arrested 15 other persons suspected to be pipeline vandals and recovered 31 jerry cans of refined petroleum products in the process.

Maj.-Gen. Enobong Udoh, the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\), 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, reported at a news conference at the 174 Battalion, Ikorodu area of Lagos on Saturday.

Udoh was represented by the Brigade Commander, Brig.-Gen. Moundhey Ali.

The GOC, who said the suspects were arrested at different times and locations, explained that the arrests were a result of intensive surveillance and intelligence report.

“In continuation of the crackdown on criminal elements and cultists in and around Lagos and Ogun states, the troops of 81 Division arrested 23 suspected cultists in Ikorodu area on April 16.

“Over 50 suspected cultists from “Eiye” confraternity were conducting physical training for new recruits, initiation and planning for robbery and kidnap activities.

“Their arrest was preceded by a shootout between the troops of 174 Battalion Ikorodu and the cultists after which, 23 of the suspected cultists were arrested while others escaped,’’ he said.

The GOC said that two of the suspects sustained gunshot wounds, adding that one of the suspected newly-recruited cultists died as a result of injuries inflicted on him during the cult initiation.

“However, one of our gallant soldiers, while combatting the cultists sustained a gunshot wound on his left leg during the encounter and was immediately evacuated.

“The soldier and the 2 wounded cultists are receiving treatment at the Battalion’s Medical Reception Station.

“Items recovered from the suspects include one locally-made double barrel pistol, five live cartridges, five machetes, four jack knives, two table knives, three locally-fabricated axes with nail like edges and five mobile phones.

“Also recovered from them are one parcel containing substance suspected to be Indian hemp. Others are two ATM cards, eight identity cards, nine passport photographs, packets of condom, rings and a variety of charms,’’ he said.

The GOC further said that the troops of the 81 Division also raided some suspected pipeline vandals at Ilara and Imagbon areas of Ikorodu to stop them from vandalising the country’s pipelines.

“The suspected vandals, armed with AK-47 rifles, fired sporadically and fled on sighting the troops.

“During the operation, sabotaged portions of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation \(NNPC\) pipelines were observed in Imoro Creek in Imagbon.

“Items recovered from them include: one wooden boat, 40 empty jerry cans each weighing 50 litres and a 1,000-metre-long hose, ostensibly used in siphoning products by the suspected vandals.

“The recovered items were destroyed and no arrest was made,’’ Udoh said.

The GOC also said that seven impersonators were arrested alongside eight suspected vandals on April 17 in Lagos and Ogun states.

“While on anti-bunkering patrol along Imoro Creek in Ikorodu, troops discovered sabotaged points along the NNPC Pipeline including a loading area in the Creek for siphoned products where eight suspected vandals were arrested.

“Items recovered from them include 10 Vehicles, 31 Jerry cans loaded with refined products, 77 empty Jerry cans, three coolers, nine mobile phones and substances suspected to be hard drugs.

“Another set of 1,320 empty Jerry cans were also discovered and destroyed.

“In addition, seven suspected impostors were arrested by troops while on operation CHECKMATE,’’ he said.

Udoh expressed appreciation to the general public and particularly the people of Lagos and Ogun states for their continuous cooperation.

He urged them to always give timely information that would help the Division in its operations.

He pledged not to relent until the Area of Responsibility of the division was completely rid of all forms of cultism, vandalism and other violent criminal activities and elements.

“The suspects are undergoing preliminary investigation after which they will be handed over to the appropriate security agencies for further investigations and prosecution,’’ he said. \(NAN\)

### Related

## adekunle

View all posts by adekunle →

Previous Post

#### Yakkurr LG becomes second in C- River to attain Open Defecation Free status

Next Post

#### Customs at MMA intercepts military hardwares

  


## Disclaimer

Comments expressed here do not reflect the opinions of vanguard newspapers or any employee thereof. 

## Latest News

  * 12:54 amMTN thrills children as it launches mPulse

  * 12:52 amAnxiety grips PDP presidential aspirants over endorsement by IBB, OBJ, Danjuma, Abdulsalami

  * 12:50 amOrogun monarch lauds Okowa over presentation of Staff of Office

  * 12:49 amIndustrial dispute: Kogi NUPSRAN tackles JUSUN over poaching of members

  * 12:49 amAnother bridge collapses in Niger

  * 12:46 amFOCAC SUMMIT: Buhari should engage Chinese investors in power sector – Mbisiogu

  * 12:37 amDAY 196: 6 months after: Sharibus’ anguish continues

  * 12:22 amComputer training: Team Uviejitobor graduates 50 Udu youths

  * 12:22 amEffurun Rotary Club will continue to execute projects— Rotn Duku

  * 12:11 amGDL launches low-risk mutual fund

  * 12:09 amThe devil is a servant of god

  * 12:08 amEmma Nyra dedicates ‘Love Song’ to twins

  * 12:04 amEnglish Premier League table

  * 12:03 amPremier League : Pochettino gives Mourinho a lesson

  * 11:49 pmLagos Carter Bridge structurally safe, 3rd Mainland Bridge tests progressing — officials

  * 11:47 pmBenue sanitation agency arrests 500 sanitation defaulters

  * 11:16 pmFight Against Human Trafficking: Edo Govt takes campaign to Abudu, urges residents to report traffickers

  * 10:12 pmAPC gov. aspirant donates N40m to boost opposition strength in Gombe

  * 10:07 pm4,000 civil servants write promotion exams in Benue – Perm Sec

  * 10:05 pmOsun poll: APC will never be involved in votes buying – Aregbesola’s aide


View All

## Editorial

  * ## Need to protect our courts

Only on 11th May this year, the Port Harcourt High Court complex in the Rivers State capital was attacked by a faction o...

  * ## Palliatives needed for importers

  * ## INEC’s lifeline for prospective voters

  * ## Eid-el-Kabir : Sacrificing personal interest for Nigeria




## Sponsored

  * ## Wife Shares Herbal Remedy for Staphylococcus, Gonorrhea and other Toilet Infections That Have been Kept Hidden for Years\!

A wife has now opened up about her she and her husband were able to finally eliminate staphylococcus aureus from their b...

  * ## This Tiny Pill Cures Bad Eyes Problems… And Has Saved Thousands From Going Blind

  * ## The Impact of Technology Adoption for MSMEs in a Changing Tax policy and Regulatory Environment

  * ## Ulunma Izejiobi Wins 7Up Harvard Business School Scholarship 2018

  * ## HERBAL VIAGRA – New Ways Men Can Get Stronger Erections and Last 25Minutes in Bed Even After 40 Years Old

  * ## SHOCKING\!\!\! As Doctor Revealed New Way Of Curing High Blood Pressure And Hypertension Completely Without Drugs

  * ## Wife Shares Herbal Remedy for Staphylococcus, Gonorrhea and other Toilet Infections That Have been Kept Hidden for Years\!




## Cartoons

  * ## Cartoon: Mr & Mrs

Related




## Most Commented

  * Don't stretch the People's Anger beyond Endurance Limit, Ohanaeze warns FG174
  * Igbo governors proscribed IPOB first, not Aso Rock - IPOB76
  * Am not losing sleep over APC's plot to impeach me- Saraki93
  * Frank hails US for exposing “lies of APC government”172
  * Yes, Ironsi toppled young Majors79
  * Why white women are s3xually attracted by black men; black women by white men220



## Ad by INDIGEN

## Trending

  * ## Photos: Jubilation as 127 Pro Biafra women regain freedom

Pro-Biafra supporters at the premises of Owerri magistrate court jubilating as 127 Pro Biafra women remanded in Owerri p...

  * ## Breaking: Kingsley Moghalu stages protest over incarceration of Biafra women

  * ## South-East, just like other geo-political zones, got N16.6bn worth of projects – Lai Mohammed

  * ## We’ve done far more than previous govt — Osinbajo

  * ## Global community backs Buhari’s 2nd term bid – Foreign minister

  * ## Is Miyetti Allah now ruling Nigeria? – Benue govt

  * ## Reactions trail alleged threat by Miyetti Allah to force Saraki out of office if…

  * ## Operation Python Dance 3: Deploy Army to farms, construction sites, Ohanaeze tells FG

  * ## Kwankwaso urges PDP to pick presidential candidate from North West

  * ## FG has failed our zone in projects — S-East govs




## Videos

## I want you to be as ruthless as humanly possible, Nigerians deserve some peace – Buhari

## Get your PVC – 2017 BigBrother housemate, Soma

## Video: Watch Tanzanian President, John Magufuli take public flight; can yours do it?

## Video: Buhari treks 800meters to his house

##  Allure Latest posts

  * Fans accuse Toke Makinwa of plastic surgery to widen her hips \(Photos\)
  * How To Overcome Infertility — Laurie Idahosa
  * Allure Fashion: Visors are back\!
  * Allure Tips: How to get the right office look with ease
  * BBNaija star, Uriel Oputa to host Cooking Show



## Nigerian Stock Exchange

  * ## Bargain hunters push stock market up by 1.57%

The bulls resurfaced in the Nigerian equity market on Thursday, with the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE All Share Index, A...

  * ## RAK Unity Petroleum shareholders okay 10k dividend

  * ## NSE: Bears dominate as stock market hits 52 weeks low




## E-editions

CLICK VIEW TO THE NEWSPAPER ARCHIVES

## Onochie Anibeze

  * ## Did I betray Richard Akinnola?

Chris Okojie had just returned from Enugu where he went to cover a league match.

Read More




## Oil & Gas Summiteer

  * ## American oil swings and emerging markets

We are back to oil volatility with its conflicting signals on global markets. Countries policies greatly affect the dema...

Read More




## Back to the matter

  * ## 2019: Why opposition is silenced and clueless

While the deepening state of confusion in the country continues to drive more and more unrest in every geopolitical zone...

Read More




## My World

  * ## The herdsmen/farmers’ clashes can be contained— Ogbeh

The image of the herdsmen that I grew up with is not the image kids of today have. Today’s herdsmen carry AK47. They kil...

Read More




## Frank & Fair

  * ## Igbo and the 2023 Presidency

The civil war left many chronic wounds. But Igbos have survived and thrived. Igbos may have been hampered by national...

Read More




## Marriage and Family

  * ## The changing face of parenting

In those days, children were told all kinds of stories to keep them in line. If a parent sent a child on an errand, she...




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance and You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall



## Life Style

  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is It Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



## Columns

  * Monday
    * Sport Bassey
    * People And Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Sobowale on Business
    * Broken Links
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Tuesday
    * Femi Aribisala
    * Dispatches from America



  * Wednesday
    * Talking Point
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * Tip of a New Dawn
  * Thursday
    * People Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub



  * Friday
    * Sweet Sour
    * Lipstick
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Saturday
    * The Passing Scene
    * My World
    * Frank & Fair
    * Marriage & Family
    * Oil & Gas Summiteer
    * Bits & Pieces



  * Sunday
    * Frankly Speaking
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Nigeria Today
    * The Orbit
    * Outside Looking In
    * Joyful Homes
    * Article of Faith



* * *

© 2018 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us


