Skip to content

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Search for:

Sunday 28 February

Sunday 28 February

Follow @vanguardngrnews

## Vanguard News

A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc

Search for:

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Sports
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
    * Motoring
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Editorial
  * Viewpoint
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Tonye Princewill
    * Crisp Shots
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * My World
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Nigeria Today
    * Vista Woman
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith
  * Relationships
  * innovation
    * Healthcare
    * Building
    * Energy



More

Breaking News

Translate

# Boko Haram: Nigerian Army inducts Combat Motorbike battalion into Battle.

On February 28, 201611:23 amIn News by adekunleComments

By Kingsley Omonobi  
Abuja – As part of renewed strategy to sustain the clearing of the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists, the Nigerian Army has inducted a combat motorbike battalion at the Headquarters of 25 Task Force Brigade, Damboa, Borno State. 

The Battalion took off just as Nigerian troops pursuing the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists in the epicenter of the battle, on Saturday killed 37 of the terrorists in a massive clearance operation while also rescuing 20 hostages from the terrorist’s haven.Army Inducts Combat Motorbike Operation Against Terrorists

During the operation, two Nigerian soldiers sustained gunshot injuries but were evacuated for medical attention.

According to a statement signed by Col. Sani Usman, “The Nigerian Army also launched the second set of 100 wanted suspected Boko Haram terrorists at the occasion. 

The Chief of Army Staff \(COAS\), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai while inducting the unit stated that “the essence of the battalion is to open and secure motorways from various towns to and fro Maiduguri and other parts of Yobe State. 

“Prior to the induction and launching ceremony, the Chief of Army Staff took time off to see and address troops located at Delwa and Bulabulin before arriving Damboa. On arrival, he inspected a Quarter guard at the Brigade’s headquarters. 

“Thereafter, he was briefed by the Brigade Commander, Brigadier General Lawrence Adeleke Araba and then showed him some weapons, vehicles and Improvised Explosive Devices \(IEDs\) making machines and equipment the formation recovered when they cleared Boko Haram terrorists camps at Talala and Ajingin recently. 

Earlier, the Commander, 7 Division Garrison, Colonel Solomon Babatunde Kumapayi also showed the COAS vehicles, weapons and Improvised Explosives Making Devices \(IEDs\) his formation recovered from the terrorists at Kotokuma on Friday. 

Inducting the combat motorbike unit, the Chief of Army Staff stated that the battalion will serve as a force multiplier in the clearance operations of remnants of Boko Haram terrorists.

He stated further that with the induction of the unit, troop’s presence will be available along the roads thus keeping the roads open and safe. 

A visibly elated Secretary of National Union of Road Transport Workers \(NURTW\), Borno State, Alhaji Ahmadu Musa showered encomiums on the COAS and the Nigerian Army for their sacrifices and the initiative that would enhance safety and security on the roads.

He promised the continuous support of his organization to the Army towards the mopping up of the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists.

He further assured the COAS that they will display and distribute the banner containing the photographs of the wanted suspected Boko Haram terrorists to all their branches and other chapters. 

The COAS also visited 254 Task Force Battalion, Sabon Gari located along Damboa-Biu road where addressed the troops.  
On the killing of 37 terrorists, Usman said, “Today, troops of 7 Division Garrison, 112 Battalion and Army Headquarters Strike Group, recorded tremendous success in a clearance operations against Boko Haram terrorist’s at Kotokuma, Dikwa Local Government Area.

“The troops cleared the terrorist’s camp which was equipped with medical facility, Improvised Explosive Devices \(IEDs\) factory, fuel dump, mechanical workshop, generators and several water points.

“The gallant troops also destroyed 3 vehicles laden with IEDs meant for suicide bombings somewhere and killed 37 Boko Haram terrorists. 

“The troops also recovered 12 vehicles, 27 motorcycles, 9 AK-47 rifles, 2 Fabrique Nationale rifles, fabricated rocket bomb and a Sniper rifle.

“Other items recovered include 4 Dane Guns, solar panels and other household items. In addition to that, they also rescued 20 persons held hostage by the terrorists.

“Unfortunately, 2 of our soldier’s sustained gunshot wounds. The wounded soldiers have been evacuated to 7 Division Hospital where they are receiving medical care.

“We wish to state here that buoyed with this unprecedented success, the troops morale is very high.

“We would like to assure the public that the troops would continue to do their best to clear all the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists wherever they may be to successfully bring to an end the menace of the terrorists.”

## adekunle

View all posts by adekunle →

Previous Post

#### Buhari makes U-turn, says he won’t pay N5000 stipend promised to unemployed

Next Post

#### Group seeks foreign partners to boost rice production

  


## Disclaimer

Comments expressed here do not reflect the opinions of vanguard newspapers or any employee thereof. 

## Latest News

  * 3:30 pmOil prices “totally unaceptable,” Buhari tells Qatar’s ruler

  * 3:27 pmEgba chief calls for more domestic investments in Nigeria

  * 3:12 pmNigeria, Qatar sign bilateral agreements on air services, avoidance of double taxation

  * 2:44 pmFG donates 15 vehicles, 100 motorcycles for Benin Presidential polls

  * 2:28 pmUNILAG convocation to affect UTME candidates – JAMB official

  * 2:11 pmPower shortage: Benin hoteliers bemoan cost of running generators

  * 2:08 pmZoologists attribute Lion escape in Jos Park to dilapidated facilities

  * 2:06 pmClerics express mixed feelings on Govt. sponsorship of pilgrimage

  * 12:01 pmPDP leadership disassociates self from fake online portal

  * 11:52 amPower shortage: Hoteliers groan over cost of running generators

  * 11:49 amGroup seeks foreign partners to boost rice production

  * 11:23 amBoko Haram: Nigerian Army inducts Combat Motorbike battalion into Battle.

  * 11:17 amBuhari makes U-turn, says he won’t pay N5000 stipend promised to unemployed

  * 10:39 amSheriff and the PDP standoff: Making a bad situation worse 

  * 10:32 amJonathan Presidency was a disaster foretold \(2\)

  * 10:27 amWill Nigerians boycott banks on Tuesday?

  * 10:22 amHow Nigeria is failing to learn from its 1983-85 financial crisis – Pat Utomi


View All

## Sponsored

  * ## We are irrevocably committed to indigenous technology for National transformation – SystemSpecs

Over the past few months, we have been inundated with enormous goodwill messages from home and abroad in respect of our...

Read More

  * ## The Big Picture: Here’s What GE Will Look Like In 2016

Read More

  * ## Buy A Plot in Lekki Southern Villa

Read More




## Editorial

  * ## Applauding the NAF, Innoson deal

WE join other delighted Nigerians in applauding the recent deal between the Nigeria Air Force NAF and the Nnewi, Anambra...

Read More

  * ## Sack of 13 Federal University VCs

Read More




## Cartoons

  * ## Locked up

Locked up




## Most Commented

  * Buhari makes U-turn, says he won't pay N5000 stipend promised to unemployed449
  * How Nigeria is failing to learn from its 1983-85 financial crisis - Pat Utomi104
  * Man excretes 30 wraps of cocaine at Abuja airport – NDLEA86
  * TOMPOLO: Don’t create more deadly militants, activist tells Buhari104
  * Budget padding: Fire-spitting Buhari unleashes detectives on suspects106



## E-editions

## Nigeria Today

  * ## Edo 2016: What is wrong with Ize-Iyamu or Obaseki?

This year’s governorship election in Edo State to fill the vacancy that would result from the end of Comrade Adams Oshio...

Read More




## Outside looking in

  * ## Poverty of Ambition

I thoroughly concur with the above quoted position credited to His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, and agree also that i...

Read More




## Facing The Ka'aba

  * ## Steadfastness amid worries, trials

Many of us are overwhelmed with anxieties and worries associated with the challenges of life. Things are really tough, b...

Read More




## Sunday Perspectives

  * ## President Buhari: The bigger the head, the bigger the headache \(3\)

Last week, I stated that the money allocated to Aso Rock clinic was 3.4 billion naira. I later discovered that 4.8 billi...

Read More




## The Orbit

  * ## Ascendancy of the Monarchists

The spate of new monarchical regimes and celebrations in the last decade or so does reflect the deep contradictions of t...

Read More




## Frankly Speaking

  * ## Jonathan Presidency was a disaster foretold \(2\)

Sam Rayburn, whose protégé was the late President Lyndon Johnson, 1908-1973, who was Senator, Vice-President and Preside...

Read More




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance and You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall



## Life Style

  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is It Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



## Columns

  * Monday
    * Sport Bassey
    * People And Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Sobowale on Business
    * Broken Links
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Tuesday
    * Femi Aribisala
    * Dispatches from America



  * Wednesday
    * Talking Point
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * Tip of a New Dawn
  * Thursday
    * People Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub



  * Friday
    * Sweet Sour
    * Lipstick
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Saturday
    * The Passing Scene
    * My World
    * Frank & Fair
    * Marriage & Family
    * Oil & Gas Summiteer
    * Bits & Pieces



  * Sunday
    * Frankly Speaking
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Nigeria Today
    * The Orbit
    * Outside Looking In
    * Joyful Homes
    * Article of Faith



* * *

© 2016 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us


