  * Opinion
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates
  * Play Games



Tuesday, March 29, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Interviews and Profiles
    * Opinion
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch
  * Letters



## Nigerian Army general dies in auto crash

March 8, 2016Premium Times

Late Gen Muhammed Aliyu

### Related News

The head of Training and Operations of the Nigerian Army, Yusha’u Abubakar, has died in an auto crash along Maiduguri-Damaturu.

Mr. Abubakar, a major general, was a former commander of the major theatre operation against Boko Haram insurgents, tagged Operation Lafiya Dole.

A statement by the spokesman of the Nigerian Army, Sani Usman, said the accident, which occurred Tuesday, also involved the acting General Officer Commanding 3 Division, MSA Aliyu, who sustained injuries.

“The Nigerian Army wishes to inform the public of the involvement of its Chief of Training and Operations \(Army\), Major General Yusha’u Mahmood Abubakar and the Acting General Officer Commanding 3 Division Nigerian Army, Brigadier General MSA Aliyu in a road traffic accident along Maiduguri-Damaturu road today. 

“Sadly, we lost Major General Yusha’u Abubakar as a result of the incident, while Brigadier General Aliyu sustained some injuries and is receiving treatment,” Mr. Usman said in short statement.

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

Text Ad:Before Now My Husband Had a Small Manhood and Could not Last More than 2 Minutes, now the story has changed. Click here to read our testimony.

* * *

Place your ad here    
Loading... 

### More in Top News

  * ###  Suspected female bomber with claims to Chibok girls receives treatment in Cameroon 

  * ###  Tinubu a pillar, leader in Yorubaland, Nigeria – Governor Fayose 

  * ###  Tunji Braithwaite, lawyer, author, politician, dies at 82 

  * ###  Nigeria’s drug agency impounds ‘first case’ of heroin hidden in letter 

  * ###  Court insists Nigeria must account for recovered loot 

  * ###  SOUND BITES: 10 Top Quotable Quotes of the Week 




### Top News

  * ###  Suspected female bomber with claims to Chibok girls receives treatment in Cameroon 

  * ###  Tinubu a pillar, leader in Yorubaland, Nigeria – Governor Fayose 

  * ###  Tunji Braithwaite, lawyer, author, politician, dies at 82 




  * Ashibogu

Na wetin dey happen?

    * Otile

Blood must have blood.

  * Paul Young

RIP

  * TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO

What type of accident ? Convoy ?……….May he find peace \!\!

    * Otile

There is no peace in hell.

      * amazing2012

Expect the same answer \!

        * Otile

You know very well that there is no peace in hell. Aren’t most of your people there? Where do you think your brother killers head to? Cikin hell to meet shugaban ku Shatan, gaskiya ne.

  * McAlfred Uta

May his soul rest in peace.

  * George

This demonic Buhari came for bloods and the bloods are flowing. Holy Ghost fire.

APC SHAME.

    * Abdul

You need your head examined

    * amazing2012

Then Jonathan most be the devil himself \!

  * Otile

Utangirma Allah.

  * emmanuel

Buhari want to reduce the population of Nigerians, so he has deliberately ignored the roads. The lame duck minister of works is in his coccon waiting to get release of N55 Billion for Lagos Ibadan and the one for Ibadan Jebba, then he would have accomplish his goal. Other part of Nigeria can go to hell thereafter.  
I am praying earnestly that Buharis family be the next in line of the road carnage.  
We are only getting these updates because they are Government functionaries. The roads in Nigeria swallow Nigerians on daily basis.

    * Dan maikoko

Softly softly pls. The first accident was on a pristine part of the-Abuja expressway. Buhari is not likely to even consider its recon during this term. the second accident has not yet been scrutinized to determine its cause.

  * Ed

Something must be done with our public officials and senior force officers on the side of their drivers, the way these guys drive on the road blaring siren baffles me, even the so called “oga” whose life is at stake encourages them. they drive as if they have their lives kept safe in their bedroom before coming out. life is too short and can go in a twinkling of an eye,these crazy drivers fail to understand all these. they are so daft that they fail to understand that the SUV’s they mostly use are not meant for such speed in a freeway. The most annoying part is when you see one useless hungry driver that cannot afford to fuel a motorcycle nor even afford an expired tokumbo tire chancing you on the road while you are driving comfortably a car car you bought with your hard earned money just because he feels he is driving “oga”,free vehicle, free fuel, free food still one mumu will be blaring siren chasing away innocent people who pay tax to maintain them while they work. ARRANT NONSENSE.

  * MI

May his soul rest in peace. 

  * UFOROABAZ

Is this a season of road traffic incidents involving prominent Nigerians, or what? What is happening?

  * westernrollings

Hmmmmm.what’s are the moral lessons here?rest on general.




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 10,239 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

* * *

### LETTERS

  * LETTER: ‘UNILAG graduate with 5.00 CGPA deserves national honour’

  * LETTER: ‘Buhari lied, Sokoto has no Federal Permanent Secretary’

  * T.B Joshua releases alarming 2016 predictions


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us



All content is Copyrighted © 2015 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 

//Twitter tracking code 
