Follow @vanguardngrnews

Mon 02 Jul 

Privacy Policy | About Us | Advertise With Us | Q&A;

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Technology
  * Politics
  * Sport
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs



###  Latest   
Jobs

Odimegwu is here to count us Warri monarch dissolves community ruling council

# Boko Haram ‘ll soon be contained – GOC

On July 2, 2012 · In News

12:09 am

Tweet

BY Taye Obateru

Jos—General Officer Commanding 3 Armoured Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Jack Nwaogbo, has again re-assured Nigerians that the Boko Haram insurgency would soon be contained.

He spoke at the interdenominational service to commemorate this year’s Nigerian Army Day celebration held at the All Saints Military Church, Maxwell Khobe Cantonment, Rukuba, Jos, Plateau State, yesterday, urging Nigerians to bear a little more with the inconveniences caused by security measures in place in the state.

Nwaogbo, who was represented by Commander, 43 Division Engineers, Brigadier-General Bamidele Ogunkale, said everything was being done to end the Boko Haram menace, which he noted will soon become history.

He acknowledged that the security measures put in place as a result of the menace had been inconveniencing for citizens but noted that it was a necessary sacrifice to guarantee the security of all.

He said: “We used to drive freely to our churches. But now, we can no longer drive to our churches; we have to park somewhere very far and trek to church.

“We are no doubt living in a trying period but we appeal to Nigerians to be patient because all these attacks will soon be over. Boko Haram will soon wither away.

“Even as a general, I can’t drive out to wherever I like because there are times that instructions come at very short notices and I have to obey them because they are for our safety.”

The GOC called for prayers for security personnel, who he said had become targets of attacks, urging their family members to also bear the lack of attention from them because of the national assignments they are involved in.

Comments are moderated. Please keep them clean and brief.

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus>

  * ### News

    * PIB will transform oil and gas sector – NNPC
    * Rainstorm destroys 40 houses in Kebbi
    * Give us funds to fix ailing refineries, NSE tells Jonthan
    * Mobile phones technicians call for new investment in telecommunication
    * Security beefed up at Gombe NYSC orientation camp
    * AU Summit holds in Addis Ababa July 16
    * Jailed Nigerians abroad: FG will not support illegality – Minister




E-editions

SweetCrude  
Education  
Environment  
Motoring  
Metro  
Interview  
Labour  
Law & Human Rights  
Bus Stop Parliament  
Crime Guard  
Crime Alert

  
  


LifeStyle  
Health  
Travel & Tourism  
Vista  
Human Angle  
Is it Beyond Pardon?  
The Arts  
Life with treena Kwenta  
Dis N Dart  
Tummy Talk

Columns  
Monday  
Sport Bassey  
People & Politics  
Rational Perspectives   
Treena Kwenta  
Broken Links  
  
Tuesday  
Tuesday Platform   
Pini Jason   
  
Wednesday  
Talking Point  
Hakeem Baba-Ahmad  
  


  
Thursday  
People & Politics  
Is'haq Modibbo Kawu  
The Hub  
  
Friday  
Sweet & Sour  
Onochie Anibeze  
My Layman's View  
Crisp Shots  
Tonye Princewill  
  
Saturday  
The Passing Scene  
Soul Kate  
Stomach Democracy  
  


  
Sunday  
Frankly Speaking  
Sunday Perspectives   
The Orbit  
The Spectrum  
Vista Woman  
Nigeria Today  
Voice of Reason  
Moment to Moment  
Article of Faith  
  
  
©2012 Vanguard Media  

