Thursday, March 24, 2016

Menu

  * Home
  * News ▼News
    * General
    * International
    * City News
    * News by State
  * Business
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Columns ▼Columns
    * Monday Column
    * Tuesday Column
    * Wednesday Column
    * Thursday Column
    * Friday Column
    * Saturday Column
    * Sunday Column
  * Editorial ▼Editorial
    * Editorial
    * Letters
    * Opinion
  * Feature
  * Multimedia ▼Multimedia
    * Videos
    * Photos
  * Investigation
  * iReport
  * Live Blog



  * Agriculture
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Health
  * Home Front
  * Islamic Forum
  * IT World
  * Jobs and career
  * Labour
  * Law
  * Next Level
  * Property
  * Women Entrepreneurs



Breaking News

  * 10,000 police recruitment: Commission unveils portal
  * Finally Senate passes 2016 budget
  * Armsgate: Dasuki dares FG, refuses to attend trial



General

# Troops clear Boko Haram in Doksa, Dure

By Ronald Mutum | Publish Date: Mar 6 2016 4:12PM

  *   *   *   *   *   *   \(0 Likes\)



The Nigerian Army has said troops fighting insurgency in the North East succeeded in clearing remnants of Boko Haram hiding in Doksa, in Biu local government and Dure district in Borno State.

A statement issued on Sunday by Army spokesman Colonel Sani Usman said  troops of 231 and 331 Battalion together with some elements of Armed Forces Special Forces of 3 Division based on received information cleared remnants of Boko Haram terrorists hiding in Doksa general area.

Colonel Usman added that during the clearance, the troops killed 2 Boko Haram terrorists and recovered military uniforms, 1 General Purpose Machine Gun, 1 AK-47 rifle and 2 Dane Guns. 

He said they also captured one Boko Haram terrorist alive, who gave his name as Musa Abdullahi.

Usman stated that the troops encountered 2 Improvised Explosive Devices buried along their route of advance which they successfully detonated.

“They also recovered 2 pickup vans, 25 motorcycles, 30 bicycles and grinding machines, as well as large quantity of foodstuffs,” he added. 

Usman explained that apart from burying Improvised Explosive Devices, the terrorists often contaminate sources of water in the area.

He also stated that on Saturday, soldiers of 121 Task Force Battalion, 26 Task Force Brigade carried out a clearance operations at Dure district.    


Usman added that despite stiff resistance from terrorist’s troops, they cleared Dure 1, Dure 2 and Jango, Dibiye and other suspected Boko Haram terrorists hideouts within the general area of the district. 

He said three soldiers sustained injuries as a result of an Improvised Explosive Device \(IED\), noting that they were immediately evacuated for medical treatment and are in a stable condition. 

Usman explained that: “During the operation, troops killed several terrorists and recovered 2 hand held Motorola radios one of which was booby-trapped, materials for Improvised Explosive making Devices and destroyed several grains storage facilities.” 

He added that another combined team of units under 26 Task Force Brigade based in Gwoza same day cleared Amdaga Makaranta and Amdaga Madachi of remnants of Boko Haram terrorists. During the encounter  two Boko  Haram terrorists fighters were killed. 

Usman said the General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Brigadier  General Victor Okwudili Ezugwu noted that prior to the clearance operation, Dure 1 and 2 were Boko Haram strong holds in the mainland of Sambisa forest.

He stated that: “The operation further revealed  the new and desperate strategy of Boko Haram terrorists; hiding their logistics especially grains for the rainy season in dugouts and the use of hand held radios primed with Improvised Explosive Devices as booby-traps.”

  


  *   *   *   *   *   *   \(0 Likes\)



What do you think about this story  
  
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a Daily Trust journalist.   
You can also contact us in the following way:   
  


Name  Your E-mail address \(required\) Town & Country  Your telephone number  Comments 

If you are happy to be contacted by a Daily Trust journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.

more news

## PTAD assures pensioners of 33% arrears; Next-of-Kins benefits

Bamas Victoria

## FG launches Freedom of Information web platform

Bamas Victoria

## Fuel scarcity to persist till May-- Kachikwu

Isiaka Wakili

## Police Games: Adewale, Ajayi wins squash competition

Joshua Odeyemi

## Custom impounds oil vessel over illegal operation

Eugene Agha, Lagos

## Only 400,000 out of 1.5m UTME candidates gain admission into universities - Okojie

.

## APC to Nigerians: Don't assess Buhari from 2015

Isiaka Wakili

## Suspect wanted for Brussels attacks still on the run, as one writes his will, prosecutor says

.

Please enable JavaScript to view the  comments powered by Disqus.

News by states 

Click on a state to view related news

Tweets by @daily\_trust

#### Daily

  * News
  * Politics
  * Business
  * International 
  * Digest
  * City news
  * Opinion
  * Column
  * Editorial
  * Letters
  * Sport
  * Health
  * Photo news



#### Week Day Specials

  * IT World
  * Law
  * Labour
  * Property 
  * Environment
  * Aso Chronicle
  * Kano Chronicles
  * Eko Trust
  * Great Green Wall
  * Education
  * Crime
  * Agriculture
  * Islamic Forum
  * Home front
  * Women Entrepreneur
  * Jobs and career
  * Next Level



#### Saturday Specials

  * Young Trusters
  * Entertainment
  * Tribute
  * Bookshelf
  * Around and About
  * Travel & Leisure
  * Womanhood
  * Encounters
  * Life Xtra
  * Weekend mag
  * Saturday comments



#### Sunday Specials

  * Entrepreneurship
  * Media
  * Art & Ideas
  * ViewPoint
  * Global connection
  * Point-Blank
  * Wakaman
  * Sunday comments



#### Columns

  * Monday
  * Tuesday
  * Wednesday
  * Thursday
  * Friday
  * Saturday
  * Sunday
  * Al-bint’s diary
  * Notes from Atlanta
  * Philosofaith
  * Within the nation
  * Reflections
  * Right motoring
  * SME Toolkit
  * Penpoint
  * Because I care
  * Politics of grammar



  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * Contact Us
  * Feedback



Media Trust Limited \(C\) 1998 – 2015 Designed by: 4cplus
