* * *

* * *

Leadership \(Abuja\) 

# Nigeria: 24 Killed in Bauchi, Jos Attacks

Achor Abimaje and Sani Muh'd Sani

28 January 2011

* * *

  * Email|
  * Print|
  * Comment



Share:

  *   *   *   *   *   * 


Jos and Bauchi — Sectarian crises yesterday rocked Plateau and Bauchi states, claiming over 24 lives.

In Gombe State, security reports last night indicated that there was palpable political tension over the arrest of a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party \(PDP\), Mr. Robinson Wasa, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission \(EFCC\). A source alleged that the arrest was engineered by Senator Ajuji Waziri, husband of Farida Waziri, the executive chairman of the anti-graft agency.

Some thugs suspected to be nomads had invaded four Berom villages in Barkin Ladi Local Government of Plateau State, killing 14 people in what a security expert described as coordinated attacks.

A military task force official said some persons had been arrested. Among those arrested by the special task force was a mobile police officer serving in Abuja.

However, the special task force confirmed that two of the fleeing nomads were killed in an exchange of gun fire with soldiers.

Captain Charles Okeocha, the spokesperson of the task force, told newsmen that some of the weapons seized included an AK 47 rifle and a pistol found in a place of worship in Dorowar Babuje, as well as the arrested police man who had in his possession four live cartridges and a sickle, a box of matches and catapult.

According to him, the mobile police man whose particulars were given as "F.No.220015" bears the name Corporal Mohammed Uba of 44 police mobile force, Abuja.

Capt. Ekeocha further said the STF had received a distress call around 1am early yesterday and sector seven of the team which oversaw the area, went into action by pursuing the fleeing Fulani nomads on top of the Dorowa Hill, where gun battle ensued.

He pointed out that two fleeing nomads were gunned down, while one soldier was shot in the leg and another nomad was wounded; both are receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in the state.

STF commended the youths in the area for their cooperation and the women for the support which led to the arrest of the attackers in the area, adding that they would be handed over to the police for proper investigation.

LEADERSHIP gathered from eyewitnesses that apart from Dorowar Babuje, three other villages were attacked in the same locality and a number of deaths were recorded in those attacks.

The villages included Nding Susut, which recorded two deaths, Nding Jok, one and Fan Loh, three with Dorowa recording eight as against the task force figure's of two.

Worried by the cycle of violence, Human Rights Watch has appealed to the federal government to "act swiftly to protect civilians of all ethnicities at risk of further attacks or reprisal killings."

It also urged the government to allow Francis Deng, the United Nations secretary-general's special adviser on the prevention of genocide, to visit Plateau State.

"This terrible cycle of violence and impunity has to stop," a press statement signed by Corinne Dufka said.

Bauchi State governor, Malam Isa Yuguda, had yesterday summoned religious leaders in the state over fresh crisis that erupted in Tafawa Balewa local government in the state. The state commissioner of police, Muhammad Indabawa, confirmed that at least four persons were killed while a few others sustained injuries during the crisis. But eyewitnesses said over 10 persons were killed.

The commissioner of police said that the unit commander was able to find only two corpses. "As I am talking to you now, we are going to the scene of the crisis with the GOC 83 division, Jos, Plateau State, Major Gen. Sunday Idoko, to ascertain the situation".

The commissioner said the problem started in the area on Wednesday evening when two youths who were playing snooker had a misunderstanding, a situation which led to this unfortunate situation, adding that the situation was brought under control. He said that yesterday morning some unidentified youths went on rampage to the market and set the place of the snooker ablaze, but that policemen had been deployed to the area and the situation is under control.

Governor Yuguda appealed to religious leaders to always preach the gospel of peaceful coexistence, saying, "Islam and Christianity are religions of peace. This shall be the last disturbance anywhere in Bauchi State. I shall not tolerate any disturbance anymore", he said.

In Gombe State, security agencies were put on the red alert last night over what a security source described as "build-up of political tension", caused by the arrest of Mr. Robison Wasa by the EFCC yesterday.

Wasa, who was picked by the EFCC at about 2pm, is the executive chairman of Billiri Local Government Area, in the state. He was said to have frustrated the recent bid by Senator Ajuji Waziri to return to the Senate in the April general elections.

An insider in the unfolding political saga accused Senator Waziri of engineering the arrest of Mr. Wasa as a "pay-back option".

The source added: "The PDP stakeholders, including Governor Danjuma Goje, are to meet tonight \(Thursday\) to ratify Mr. Robinson Wasa as running mate to the PDP governorship candidate of Gombe State Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo. Senator Waziri got to know about it and immediately directed his wife to arrest him.

"It is very unfortunate that Farida Waziri could allow her husband to use her to fight a political cause. It is only in this country that this kind of a thing happens."

## Relevant Links

  * West Africa
  * Nigeria
  * Conflict
  * Legal Affairs



The source, who did not want his name mentioned in the print, said Mr. Wasa's refusal to work for Senator Waziri, who comes from the area, was based on the gentleman's agreement by the party in the senatorial district.

According to him, "Senator Waziri was elected as a senator via bye-election; we agreed that he would only serve out the tenure of his late predecessor, but Waziri failed to keep that agreement when he insisted recently in contesting the primaries."

In a swift reaction, the spokesman of the EFCC, Mr. Femi Babafemi, refuted the allegation of political persecution of the chairman.

In a text message sent to LEADERSHIP last night, Babafemi said Wasa was arrested in connection to a case of forgery and money laundering "for which he has been under investigation for over a year and has been reporting every week to our office in Gombe."

  


Be the first to Write a Comment\!

Today's Featured News   
Egypt's Mubarak Dissolves Govt But Protest Continues  
Global Fund Fighting Aids, TB, Malaria Probes Fraud  
South Africa: Mandela Discharged From Hospital  
  
  


Business/Techonology News   
Shell Digs in Heels over Nigeria's Oil Spill Demands  
Rwanda Tags Minerals in Bid to Stem Illegal Trade  
Cote d'Ivoire Cocoa Ban Pushes Up World Prices  
  
  


More News on allAfrica.com

Cleric Launches Free Medical Treatment in Abia  
A clergyman, Mr Emma Okoro, of the Christ ...

African Leaders Soften Stance On Gbagbo  
The African Union has retreated from its earlier ...  
  
Protect Digital Migrants  
Kenya has set itself a deadline of next year to migrate from ...

Oil Exports to Hit 11-Month Low in March  
Crude oil exports from Nigeria are set to decline ...  
  
Local Stock Exchange Tops Global Indices  
The interim administrator of the Nigerian Stock ...

Games Probe Report Out  
UGANDA Olympic Committee \(UOC\) has back tracked on a promise to ...  
  
  


Copyright © 2011 Leadership. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media \(allAfrica.com\). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here. 

AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over 125 African news organizations, plus more than 200 other sources, who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. 

AllAfrica - All the Time

* * *

Top | Mobile | Who We Are | Advertising | Search   
My Account | Make us your home page | RSS  | Contact  | Privacy 

* * *

Sign up for FREE daily 'top headlines' by email »

* * *

Site FrançaisSite GuideWho We AreContent ProvidersAdvertisingMy AccountMyAfricaBiztechSustainablePeaceMobile

HOME  
  
##  Relevant Links 

  * West Africa
  *   

  * Nigeria
  * Conflict, Peace and Security
  * Legal and Judicial Affairs



##  Topics 

  *   

  * FREE EMAIL HEADLINES

  * Special Reports & Briefings
  * Photo Essays
  * From allAfrica
  * Topical Focus Pages
  * Resources and Documents
  * RSS Feeds
  * BlogAfrica
  *   

  * Arts, Culture, Entertainment
  * Books
  * Book Reviews
  * Children & Youth
  * Conflict and Security
  * Crime and Corruption
  * Economy, Business, & Finance
  * Editorials
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Sustainable Development
  * Food, Agriculture and Rural Issues
  * Health
  * AIDS
  * Malaria
  * ICT and Telecom
  * Legal Affairs and Crime
  * Media
  * Music
  * Music Reviews
  * Religion
  * Refugees
  * Science and Biotech
  * Sport
  * Soccer
  *   

  * Travel
  * Women
  *   

  * U.S., Canada and Africa
  * Europe and Africa
  * Asia, Australia, and Africa
  * Middle East and Africa
  * Latin America and Africa
  *   

  * Internet Gateway
  * Content Providers



SELECT \-- Regions/Countries -- Africa Central Africa East Africa North Africa Southern Africa West Africa \---  Algeria Angola Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Congo-Kinshasa Côte d'Ivoire Djibouti Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea Bissau Kenya Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger Nigeria Rwanda Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa Sudan Swaziland São Tomé and Príncipe Tanzania Togo Tunisia Uganda Western Sahara Zambia Zimbabwe   
SELECT \-- Topics -- AGOA AIDS Africa on the Move Agribusiness Aid and Assistance Arms and Armies Arts Athletics Banking Book Reviews Books Business Capital Flows Children Climate Commodities Company Conflict Construction Crime Currencies Debt Ecotourism Editorials Education Energy Environment Food and Agriculture From allAfrica Game Parks Governance Health Healthcare and Medical Human Rights ICT Infrastructure Investment Labour Land Issues Latest Legal Affairs Malaria Manufacturing Media Migration Mining Music Music Reviews NEPAD NGO Oceans Olympics Peacekeeping Petroleum Polio Pregnancy and Childbirth Privatization Refugees Religion Science Soccer Sport Stock Markets Sustainable Development Terrorism Trade Transport Travel Tuberculosis Urban Issues Water Wildlife Women World Cup \---  Central Africa Business East Africa Business North Africa Business Southern Africa Business West Africa Business \---  Asia, Australia, and Africa Europe and Africa International Organisations Latin America and Africa Middle East and Africa U.S., Canada and Africa \---  From AllAfrica Photo Essays Special Reports

In Topical Focus » Nigeria

Nigerian Coach Wants Afcon Qualifier in Lagos  


Super Eagles Head Coach Samson Siasia has requested the Nigeria Football Federation...  
  
Nigerian Soccer Player Was Murdered - FBI  


There has been a twist in the death of former Eagles' defender,...  
  
Nigerian Voter Registration Off to Bumpy Start  


Nigeria is carrying out a two-week exercise to build a new voters'...  
  
  


Nigeria Video from Africast TV

# Most Active Stories: Nigeria

  * Most Read
  * Most Commented
  * Most Emailed



  1. Uche Okafor Was Murdered - FBI
  2. Jonathan Should Resign Based on Committee Findings - Ribadu
  3. West Africa: Probes Find Fraud in Health Grants to Nigeria, Djibouti
  4. Evidence Shows Okafor Was Murdered, Says Cousin
  5. State Governor Says Politicians Import Voters
  6. Nigeria 'To Consider' Kenya's Request On ICC
  7. Govt Agents Make Big Cocaine Bust
  8. Sectarian Conflicts Rock Plateau, Bauchi States
  9. Crisis Hits Northern Governors' Forum
  10. Shell Says It Won't Pay Compensation for Spills Caused by Sabotage
  11. More Most Active >>



  1. Cte d'Ivoire: Nigeria Seeks UN Vote on Using Force Against Gbagbo
  2. Atiku Explains Why He Lost PDP Primary
  3. Cte d'Ivoire: West African Leaders Seek Obama Talks Over Crisis
  4. Jonathan Should Resign Based on Committee Findings - Ribadu
  5. Cte d'Ivoire: Ouattara Lobbies Nigeria for Backing
  6. Yar'Adua Family Leaves Ruling Party for Opposition
  7. Eight Killed in Fresh Jos Crisis
  8. Uche Okafor Was Murdered - FBI
  9. INEC Needs N6.6 Billion for Seven More Days, Says Jega
  10. ACN/CPC Alliance - Buhari, Ribadu in Secret Meeting
  11. More Most Active >>



  1. FEC Approves N19.2 Billion Contracts
  2. Trovan - Pfizer, Compensation And Matters Arising
  3. Available Climate Information Insufficient -World Bank
  4. Sectarian Conflicts Rock Plateau, Bauchi States
  5. 212 Ex-Militants Off to Ghana for Training
  6. Jonathan Should Resign Based on Committee Findings - Ribadu
  7. Ghana Joins the Oil Producers' Club
  8. Kerosene, Cooking Gas Prices Soar
  9. West Africa: Probes Find Fraud in Health Grants to Nigeria, Djibouti
  10. Diesel Supply Crisis Hits Marketers, Transporters
  11. More Most Active >>



##  at a Glance » Nigeria

  * Nigeria 'To Consider' Kenya's Request On ICC
  * Probes Find Fraud in Health Grants to Nigeria, Djibouti
  * Sectarian Conflicts Rock Plateau, Bauchi States
  * Govt Agents Make Big Cocaine Bust
  * State Governor Says Politicians Import Voters



##  More News from » Leadership

  * Nigeria: Lagos Assembly Insists On Education Summit 
  * Nigeria: AGIS Appoints Oceanic Bank to Collect Fees 
  * Nigeria: Jonathan Calls for Strict Regulation in Varsity Admissions 
  * Nigeria: Ondo People Want Jonathan to Complete Olokola Free Trade Zone 
  * Nigeria: Customers Pummel Bank Manager Over Deposit 
  * more headlines »



  

