Follow @vanguardngrnews

Fri 15 Jun 

Privacy Policy | About Us | Advertise With Us | Q&A;

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Technology
  * Politics
  * Sport
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs



###  Latest   
Jobs

Okorocha condemns families’ co-operation with kidnappers Dangers of A Divided Mali

# COAS promises to transform Army

On June 15, 2012 · In News

2:03 am

Tweet

By Johnbosco Agbakwuru

CALABAR – CHIEF of Army Staff, Lt- General Onyeabo Ihejirika, has pledged to transform the Nigerian Army to make it battle-ready to tackle security challenges in the country.

Gen. Ihejirika at the commissioning of the renovated 13 Brigade Garrison Office building in Calabar, Cross River State, said one of the ways this could be achieved was by creating a conducive environment for their operations.

Represented by the General Officer Commanding, GOC, 82 Division, Enugu, Major- General Oluwaseun Oshinowo, Ihejirika said the old structures that used as the garrison office built by the colonial masters should be refurbished as it was a heritage of the country’s history.

Comments are moderated. Please keep them clean and brief.

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus>

  * ### News

    * 2 cols,12 others for court-martial for rape, murder, kidnapping
    * Nigeria needs strong legislature – Ghanaian VP
    * N1.17bn NCC fine: Operators promise to pay next week
    * Sheathe your swords, Borno elders appeal to Boko Haram
    * COAS promises to transform Army
    * Okorocha condemns families’ co-operation with kidnappers
    * Fashola suspends honorary awards in LASU




E-editions

SweetCrude  
Education  
Environment  
Motoring  
Metro  
Interview  
Labour  
Law & Human Rights  
Bus Stop Parliament  
Crime Guard  
Crime Alert

  
  


LifeStyle  
Health  
Travel & Tourism  
Vista  
Human Angle  
Is it Beyond Pardon?  
The Arts  
Life with treena Kwenta  
Dis N Dart  
Tummy Talk

Columns  
Monday  
Sport Bassey  
People & Politics  
Rational Perspectives   
Treena Kwenta  
Broken Links  
  
Tuesday  
Tuesday Platform   
Pini Jason   
  
Wednesday  
Talking Point  
Hakeem Baba-Ahmad  
  


  
Thursday  
People & Politics  
Is'haq Modibbo Kawu  
The Hub  
  
Friday  
Sweet & Sour  
Onochie Anibeze  
My Layman's View  
Crisp Shots  
Tonye Princewill  
  
Saturday  
The Passing Scene  
Soul Kate  
Stomach Democracy  
  


  
Sunday  
Frankly Speaking  
Sunday Perspectives   
The Orbit  
The Spectrum  
Vista Woman  
Nigeria Today  
Voice of Reason  
Moment to Moment  
Article of Faith  
  
  
©2012 Vanguard Media  

