Tuesday, September 10, 2013 

feedyoutubetwitterfacebook

  * About Us
  * Advert Rates
  * Contact Us






  * Home
  * News
    * Foreign
    * National
    * Investigation/Special Reports
  * Business
    * Agriculture
    * Aviation
    * Banking and Finance
    * Informal Sector
    * International Oil and Gas
    * Oil and Gas
    * Manufacturing
    * SMEs
    * Telecommunications
  * Metro
  * Arts & Entertainment
  * Opinion
    * Columns
    * Editorial
  * Faith
    * Christianity
    * Islam
  * Sports
  * Multimedia
  * Urban-Eco
  * Consumer Forum
  * Passage
  * Submit News



Home » News » Nigeria to deploy 700 soldiers for Peace Keeping Operations in Liberia- Army

#  Nigeria to deploy 700 soldiers for Peace Keeping Operations in Liberia- Army 

Premium Times

Published: September 6,2013

The Army recently withdrew several soldiers from foreign operations because of domestic duties.

The Nigerian Army will deploy 700 soldiers for Peace Support Operation in Liberia, a military official has said.

The Commandant, Nigeria Army Peacekeeping Centre, Major General Salihu Uba, said this on Friday in Kaduna.

Mr. Uba said that the personnel, drawn from the 22 Battalion, would serve for six months. He said this at the end of the pre-deployment training conducted for the soldiers at the centre in Jaji, Kaduna State. He commended them for their professionalism, and urged them to be good ambassadors of Nigeria.

The commandant assured that the centre would continue to expand its facilities “to provide first class training to troops and participants”.

“The vision of the Nigerian Army peacekeeping centre is to deliver realistic training to potential peacekeepers for the multidimensional challenges of contemporary peace support operations,” he stated.

Mr. Uba added that the centre had been discharging its role creditably, which earned it a certificate of recognition from the United Nations, as Centre of Excellence.

The General Officer Commanding 2 Division, Major General Ahmad Jibrin, charged the soldiers to be focused, professional and efficient in discharging their mandate.

Mr. Jibrin, represented by Brigadier General Johnson Oladende, warned them against involvement in drug trafficking and disrespecting the culture of their host country.

He assured that the army would continue to live up to expectations in safeguarding world peace.

The Nigerian Army recently withdrew several hundreds of soldiers in peace keeping operations in foreign countries so as to have more personnel to fight the Boko Haram insurgency in Northern Nigeria and the increased crude oil theft in the Niger Delta.

\(NAN\)

Comment Print this article

Tweet

Tweet

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

#### Daily Headlines Newsletter

Sign up to receive the day's top stories, emailed every morning

Name

Email

#### FAAC REPORTS

#### Resources

  * NHRC report on Baga Killings
  * Nigeria Police Code of Conduct
  * Punch Newspaper
  * Sahara Reporters
  * Vanguard



#### Letters

  *   *   * 


##  How TB Joshua wants his 50th birthday celebrated

Dear Editor, Renowned Nigerian Pastor TB Joshua turns 50 on Wednesday June 12th 2013. In his

##  Abandoned drainage endangers pedestrians, motorists in Awka

The pedestrian bridge at the UNIZIK Junction in Awka, Anambra State, is currently at risk




##  Good Governance: Hon. Bimbo Daramola and his 32 Bed Hospital By Ayodele Bayode

Dear Editor, I have some good words to say about Bimbo Daramola, the legislator representing

##  Arik Air passengers to Uyo, Lagos, Port Harcourt stranded in Abuja, By Aminu Bello

Arik Air passengers to Uyo, Lagos and Port Harcourt are stranded at the Abuja Airport.




##  Tension in Ogun varsity as students threaten showdown, By Ogunjimi Taiwo

Tension is high in Olabisi Onabanjo University as students prepare to ground all activities and

##  House where Lugard signed amalgamation of Northern Southern Nigeria needs attention

Dear Sir, My name is Pelu Awofeso, travel journalist and publisher of waka-about . In




View more

#### Submit a letter

Letters will be edited for policy, content and clarity. All letters must have the writer's name and address. You may send your letters to:  
newsroom@premiumtimesng.com

#### Currency Converter

  
  


  * National
    * N/East | Central
    * N/West
    * S/South | East
    * South West
  * Arts & Entertainment
    * Arts/Books
    * Fashion
    * Film
    * Music
  * Multimedia
    * Photos
    * Video
  * Opinion
    * Columns
    * Editorial
  * A – Z
    * Business
    * Foreign
    * Sports



All content is Copyrighted © 2013 The Premium Times, Nigeria.
