  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Sunday January 11th, 2015

Sunday January 11th, 2015

Follow @vanguardngrnews

TRANSLATE:::

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Crisp Shots
    * Tonye Princewill
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * My World
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Vista Woman
    * Nigeria Today
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith
  * PROPERTY
  * THESPARK
  * Shop



# Boko Haram in four-hour reign of terror, kills 35 in Yobe

on May 28, 2014   /   in News 12:07 am   /   Comments

Tweet

BY NDAHI MARAMA & BALA AJIYA  
Boko Haram terrorists, Tuesday, killed 35 persons comprising 14 soldiers, 11 policemen and 10 civilians in separate attacks in Buni Yadi, Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State and Chinene village in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State.

The Divisional Police Officer of Bunu Yadi Division, Superintendent Hassan Thlama, was among the policemen killed, while many others sustained gunshot injuries.

In the attack, the palaces of the Emir and the District Head \(names withheld\), a police station and some military posts were completely destroyed, while in the Chinene attack, two Churches, shops and residential houses were set ablaze.

Site of a car bomb blast where football fans were watching the final of the UEFA Champions League match the night before, at a viewing centre in the city of Jos, on May 25, 2014. A fresh explosion targeted on May 24 football enthusiasts at a viewing centre where the final UEFA Champions League match between Real Madrid FC and Atletico Madrid FC was being broadcast.

Buni Yadi is about 55 kilometers South of Damaturu, the Yobe State capital that had witnessed several attacks, particularly the attack on the Federal Government College, Buni Yadi, which claimed the lives of over 55 students while they were sleeping in their dormitories.

Chinene village is South-East and a border community with Cameroon and about 130 kilometres drive from Maiduguri, the Borno State capital.

Four-hour reign of terror

It was gathered that a large number of suspected terrorists invaded Buni Yadi at 5p.m. on Monday. They came in Hilux vehicles with military camouflage uniforms, improvised explosive devices, IEDs, petrol bombs and rocket-propelled launchers.

The attack, which lasted till 9p.m., targeted security formations. Many government structures including the Magistrate Court, and vehicles were destroyed.

A top security source in Damaturu, who confirmed the incident said: “The gunmen took all the security operatives in Buni Yadi unawares and wreaked havoc on mostly policemen and soldiers.

“Apart from 11 policemen and 14 soldiers killed, two persons suspected to be civilians, who were caught up in the crossfire, also lost their lives.”

A resident of Buni Yadi, Mallam Jubrin Usmanu, told Vanguard in a telephone interview that the gunmen only came for security operatives as they did not attack residents, but that civilians who died might have been hit by stray bullets.

He said the gunmen also burnt down the palaces of the emir and the District Head of Buni Yadi “without killing anybody as they first asked the residents in the palaces to leave before they set the places ablaze,” Usmanu added.

Another reliable security source said the dead bodies of their colleagues killed in Buni Yadi were evacuated to General Sani Abacha Specialist Hospital in Damaturu, before conveying them to the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital Mortuary for identification by their relatives on yesterday, while the injured ones are currently receiving treatment at different hospitals in Damaturu and Maiduguri.

The spokesman of the Military operatives in Damaturu, Lieutenant Eli Lazarus was contacted on phone several times, but there was no response at press time.

In a related development eight people were killed when some suspected terrorists riding in motorcycles and armed with AK47 rifles stormed Chinene village of Chikidr Joghode Kaghum ward of Gwoza council in Borno State.

Flags up

The insurgents, according to sources also hoisted their flags in Ashigashiya Ward and other hilly border villages with Cameroon and were celebrating what they now claimed as their strongholds.

A resident, Mr. Joshua Jidda, said the gunmen invaded Chinene at 2a.m., yesterday, and opened fire on sleeping residents killing eight people, including an old woman in her 80s.

He gave the names of some of the victims as Bulama Dajiba, Bulama John, Haruna Kwatha, Haruna Wadda, Births Kurma, Haruna Waruda and Shaibu Galva.

The Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Gideon Jubrin, could not be reached as his phone numbers were switched off. A top police source confirmed the attacks and the number of casualties.

    Print       Email

NEXT ARTICLE →  
IST settles cases valued at N351.9bn in 19 yrs

← PREVIOUS ARTICLE  
Lagos guber aspirant identifies solution to ethnic, religious crisis 

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

  *   *     * MOST COMMENTED
    * RECENT COMMENTS

  *   * ## E-editions

  *   *   *   *   *   * 


  * ## Latest News

    * 5:21 pm I killed my neighbour in self defence — murder suspect
    * 5:03 pm One Day A Change Will Come
    * 4:54 pm Mr. President is hypocritical over railway revival, love for SW —APC
    * 4:16 pm Police confirm attack on party office in Rivers
    * 3:29 pm Jonathan likens Nigeria’s challenges to Israelites’ journey to Canaan
    * 3:20 pm Divers find black box of crashed AirAsia jet: Indonesia ministry
    * 2:45 pm APC says Jonathan govt plans to postpone next month’s general elections
    * 2:30 pm Obasanjo takes a bow at the Jonathan’s wedding
    * 1:39 pm Thousands more poultry culled as bird flu fears grow in Taiwan
    * 12:54 pm Army appeals for support after ‘deadliest’ Boko Haram attack
    * 12:49 pm Plateau PDP condemns burning of Jonathan’s campaign buses
    * 12:44 pm I am not going to run Nigeria on my heartbeat – Jonathan
    * 12:15 pm Jonathan Vs Obasanjo: The final battle\!
    * 12:15 pm How I killed my lady friend — 41-year-old spare parts dealer
    * 12:07 pm Father Mbaka Saga: I’ll close Adoration Ground if…. —Cardinal Olubunmi Okogie
View all →
  *   * ## Relationships

    * ### I took her in and she seduced my husband

When a junior colleague was having personal problems, especially with her landlord, I let her move i

    * ### Could I have fathered my friend’s wife’s child?

    * ### Selfies: How far should you go?

    * ### My brother is betraying his best friend

  * ## Chibok Watch

    * ### \#BringBackOurGirls: My advice to Boko Haram and President Jonathan— Malala

But it brings very bad name to the country especially the abduction of the girls in Borno State. You

    * ### Chibok and the failure of reporting

    * ### The pain and shame of Chibok

  * ## Editorial

    * ### Needed: Party Discipline

    * ### Can The Campaigns Begin?

  *   * ## Cartoon

    * ###  Level playing ground 

View more →

  * Tweets about "@vanguardngrnews"




## Article of Faith

  * ### Warning: Robbers at Work in the Churches




## Nigeria Today

  * ### The political party I will vote for

The Peoples Democratic Party \(PDP\) by its own claim is the largest political party in Africa. P...

Read More →




## Frankly Speaking

  * ### Okonjo Iweala’s third budget bites the dust

In that now forgotten long poem, which we memorized in our secondary school days, Kipling liste...

Read More →




## Outside looking in

  * ### Nigeria needs a leader not a ruler

I have often wondered if Nigerians understand the difference between ruling and leading. I said...

Read More →




## Sunday Perspectives

  * ### Rendering unto Caesar that which is Caesar’s

Already, the year 2015 is up and running. All over the world, people are trying to get themselv...

Read More →




## Special Report

  * ### Jonathan Vs Obasanjo: The final battle\!

As controversy continues to trail recent outburst by former President Olusegun Obasanjo when he...

Read More →




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance &You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall
  * Facing the Ka'aba



  * LifeStyle
  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is it Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



  * Columns
  * Monday
  *   * Sport Bassey
  * People & Politics
  * Rational Perspectives
  * Sobowale on Business
  * Broken Links
  * Tuesday
  * Femi Aribisala
  * Tuesday Platform
  * Dispatches from America
  * Wednesday
  * Talking Point
  * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
  * For Crying Out Loud



  * Thursday
  * People & Politics
  * Is'haq Modibbo Kawu
  * The Hub
  * Veggie-victory
  * Friday
  * Sweet & Sour
  * Lipstick
  * My Layman's View
  * Tentacles
  * Onochie Anibeze
  * Saturday
  * The Passing Scene
  * Trends in Politics
  * Matters Arising
  * Marriage and Family
  * Hope & Possibilities Ride
  * My World



  * Sunday
  * Frankly Speaking
  * Sunday Perspectives
  * The Orbit
  * Outside Looking In
  * Vista Woman
  * Nigeria Today
  * Moment to Moment
  * Article of Faith



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



© 2015 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria
