  * Hausa
  * Opinion
  * Play Games
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates



Sunday, June 25, 2017 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Business Specials
    * Opinion
  * Health
    * News Reports
    * Investigations
    * Data and Infographics
    * Health Specials
    * Features
    * Events
    * Primary Health Tracker
  * Agriculture
    * News Report
    * Research & Innovation
    * Data & Infographics
    * Special Reports/Features
    * Investigations
    * Interviews
    * Markets
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * Projects
    * Parliament Watch
    * AGAHRIN
  * Panama Papers



## Taraba violence: Nigerian Army blames politicians as Governor Ishaku denies ordering killing of Fulanis

June 25, 2017Sani Tukur and Agency Report

Taraba

### Related News

The Acting General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 3 Division, Nigerian Army, Jos, Benjamin Ahanotu, has called on politicians in Taraba to be neutral, fair and just over the current crisis on the Mambilla Plateau.

Mr. Ahanotu made the call when he addressed the Chairman of Sardauna Local Government, John Yep, in Gembu, Taraba State, on Saturday.

The violence on the Mambilla Plateau between Fulani and Mambilla tribes caused at least 18 deaths with many of them believed to be Fulani.

The violence has been condemned by the Acting President Yemi Osinbajo who has deployed more security officials there.

Fulani residents of the area had accused Mr. Yep of being one of the sponsors of the violence against them in a statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES.

On Saturday, Mr. Ahanotu said from the briefs he got from the Brigade Commander of 23 Brigade, Yola, Bello Mohammed, prominent politicians from the area played roles that escalated the situation.

Mr. Ahanotu, a brigadier general, said the carnage being perpetrated in the area would not have escalated if the politicians had acted justly in dealing with the situation.

He warned that soldiers deployed to the area should not be dragged into politics as they were only there to restore peace.

Earlier, Mr. Mohammed said officials of the local government were frustrating the efforts of the army to reach the hinterland where most of the havoc was being perpetrated.

He also said that in spite of the on-going crisis, no prominent politician had come over to the area to help in calming the situation.

“No member of the national or state assembly has come home despite the fact that they would have assisted in controlling their people,” Mr. Mohammed said.

While the army accuses the Taraba politicians of not doing enough to curb the violence, the state governor, Darius Ishaku, has denied sponsoring the killings of Fulanis.

In a statement by his spokesperson, Emmanuel Bello, Mr. Ishaku said the claims that he gave the order for the extermination of Fulani ethic group is untrue and those spreading the falsehood are uninformed/

Mr. Ishaku also condemned the “ongoing fracas between Fulani herdsmen and farmers in Mambilla Plateau, Sardauna Local Government.”

According to him, bloodshed must be condemned wherever it happens, and not only when one group decided that they had been affected. 

The spokesperson, in a statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES on Saturday, demanded that critics accusing Mr. Ishaku of instigating genocide, should produce a memo, tape or video recording of how the directive was issued, adding that they were out for mischief.

He described the accusers as people displaying their inability to properly use the term, genocide. 

“The accusers of Governor Ishaku are saying that he, at some point, actually gave orders by way of a broadcast or in some secret location that a certain ethnic group should be wiped out of Taraba,” the spokesperson said.

“They must have a tape recording of such instructions or directives. They probably have a memo by the governor where he clearly gave the plans for eliminations, stating timelines. 

“They also probably know the armed militia he had planned with to carry out the dastardly act. Now, if they don’t have all of these, as I’m sure there is nothing like that, then, it is amazing how they could sit before journalists and tell a civilised world that a genocide has been planned against them. 

“If they want to see genocides, ample examples are there but certainly not in our dear Taraba state. We don’t profile people in this very lovely state or plan the eliminations of same. Life is sacrosanct here.”

The governor wondered why the term genocide had not been used in other places where the country witnessed horrendous cases of crimes against humanity, his spokesperson said.

“In Taraba state, all human lives are precious to us. That is why Governor Ishaku keeps pushing for peace. That’s even his mantra: he says, ‘give me peace and I would give you development’; he is too refined, too peace loving to engage in any kind of bloodletting or encourage such. The governor is a very civilised man of the world who has interacted with various segments,” Mr. Bello said.

  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Email
  * LinkedIn
  * Print
  * WhatsApp
  * Telegram
  * Google
  * Skype
  * More
  * 


  * Tumblr
  * Pinterest
  *   * Pocket
  * Press This
  *   * Reddit
  * 


* * *

DOWNLOAD THE PREMIUM TIMES MOBILE APP

Now available on

   
  
* * *

TEXT AD:WARNING TO MEN: These 3 Foods is Killing Your Erection. Click Here to Know Them...

* * *

All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

### More in North East

  * ###  Nigerian soldier who was part of Evans’ kidnap gang arrested 

  * ###  Buhari ‘speaks from London, greets Muslims on Sallah’

  * ###  Borno, Igbo community condemn eviction order 

  * ###  ANALYSIS: The many controversies of sacked Nigerian lawmaker, Herman Hembe 

  * ###  ANALYSIS: The travails of sacked Nigerian senator, Abubakar Danladi 

  * ###  Death toll in Taraba violence rises to 18 




### Top News

  * ###  Major health stories across Nigeria last week 

  * ###  8 things Muslims should do on day of Eid 

  * ###  17 rulings every Muslim should know about ZAKAT AL – FITR 




  * amazing2012

You can see no Christians comment because most the victims were Fulanis.  
Recently, Taraba passed a law against open grazing in a state that is 99% bush and now sponsored terrorists to kill them. The beauty about all these hate is the reverting of most Christians Fulanis that were deceived into becoming Christians years back. Finally these suspectes should expect reterliation from the families of the victims \!\!\!

    * Okakuoofbenin

Dumbass how come you Fulanis are the only tribe having problems with every single tribe in Nigeria?

  * Nicodemus

I wonder where this country is heading to. Some one please let me know.

  * Mamman

If the politicians, for ulterior motives, did not somehow encourage the carnage, why would the Mamhilad tribe all of a sudden, wake up & start attacking their Fulani neighbours who have co existed for over 200 yrs? Is it because the Speaker of the State Assembly is a Mambilla too? The Gembu Fulani are NOT herdsmen. They have been settled on that plateau for centuries. They have their own landed property & estates where they graze their cattle. Yet, someone, somehow, somewhere is causing confusion because of what? Trying to position themselves to take advantage of the proposed Hydro electric dam project? Are they planning to use this opportunity to set up a committee to attempt to review land ownership there? Time shall tell.

  * Darman Newman

The spokesman’s statement seems more like a defense of the governor & not sounding regretful for the violence. This isn’t good enough. The governor too should show more concern as the leader. No wonder the army is frustrated. My advise is for the govt people to be seen to be fair & desist from trying to justify any form of violence to avoid the impression that they are behind this. Peace to all.

  * Acting Citizen of Nigeria

The name of this reporter is SANI TUKUR. I have no doubt that he’s a hegemonic fulani. Now, you’d are already asking why am I “attacking” a reporter instead of the report?

If you asked that question, it is most likely you did not NOTICE a very carefully concealed hatred on the report:

The first paragraph said: “The Acting General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 3 Division, Nigerian Army, Jos, Benjamin Ahanotu, has called on politicians…”  
Now see the second paragraph:  
“Mr. Ahanotu made the call when he addressed…”

Compare that to that of paragraph 6:

“On Saturday, Mr. Ahanotu said from the briefs he got from the Brigade Commander of 23 Brigade, Yola, Bello Mohammed…”

So? Can Sani Tukur tell me when a civilian started being GOCs of army formations in Nigeria? Not even in America do journalists call army generals Mr. But, for Sani Tukur, an Igbo man shouldn’t be given his hard-earned military title. Little wonder junior officers like Burutai are made army chiefs; little wonder we have a chief defence staff \(a post that should be the highest security post in the land\), but his junior in command \(Brutai\) calls the shots.

This is the sad story of Nigeria. And they’re letting the nation die a limb a day. These northern muslim hegemonic oligarchs would soon have nobody to lord it on.




### Search Our Stories

### RAMADAN TIMING FOR ABUJA AND OTHER LOCATIONS

TOWNS FAJR SUNRISE MAGRIB  
ABAKALIKI4.576.136.42  
ABEOKUTA5.146.307.10  
ABUJA4.546.106.48  
AKURE5.056.216.54  
AUCHI5.026.186.49  
ANKPA4.556.116.44  
ARGUNGU4.556.117.16  
AZARE4.365.526.42  
BAMA4.235.396.32  
BAUCHI4.425.586.40  
BENIN5.066.226.51  
BICHI4.425.586.51  
BIDA4.596.156.53  
B/GWARI5.546.106.52  
B/KEBBI4.586.147.07  
BIU4.325.486.30  
CALABAR4.586.146.38  
DAMATURU4.295.456.35  
DAURA4.405.566.51  
DUTSE4.415.576.45  
ENUGU4.586.146.43  
FUNTUA4.496.056.53  
GOMBE4.365.526.34  
GUMI4.556.117.02  
GUSAU4.486.046.55  
GWADABAWA4.526.087.05  
GWOZA4.255.416.27  
HADEJIA4.355.516.44  
IBADAN5.106.266.59  
IFE5.086.246.57  
ILESHA5.096.257.03  
ILORIN5.066.226.59  
JALINGO4.375.546.31  
JERE4.516.076.47  
JOS4.456.016.43  
KABBA5.016.176.52  
KEBBI4.556.187.04  
KADUNA  4.506.066.50  
KAFANCHAN4.496.056.45  
KAFIN MAIYAKI4.446.006.50  
KANO4.425.586.49  
KATSINA4.446.006.55  
KONTAGORA4.596.156.57  
LAFIYA4.496.056.42  
LAGOS5.146.306.59  
LOKOJA4.486.146.49  
MAIDUGURI4.245.406.30  
MAKURDI4.526.086.41  
MINNA4.566.126.52  
MISAU4.355.516.38  
MONGUNO4.205.186.33  
MUBI4.275.436.25  
NGURU4.334.496.42  
NINGI4.415.576.43  
OGBOMOSHO5.086.246.59  
OKENE5.016.176.50  
ONITSHA5.026.186.45  
OYO5.096.257.00  
P/HARCOURT 5.036.196.43  
POTISKUM4.324.486.37  
SAGAMU5.122.286.59  
SOKOTO4.536.097.04  
TAKUM4.446.026.35  
WARRI5.076.236.49  
WURNO4.526.087.03  
YOLA4.335.496.27  
ZARIA4.486.046.50  
COTONOU-BENIN5.196.357.02  
NDJAMENA-CHAD4.165.326.23  
NIAMEY-NIGER5.046.207.17  
ZINDER-NIGER4.355.516.51  
GAROUA-CAMEROUN4.295.456.23  
YAOUNDE-CAMEROUN4.476.036.23  
  
### 

### Podcasts

﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us
  * Projects
    * AGAHRIN
    * Parliament Watch
  * Resources
    * List of Universities in Nigeria
    * List of Federal Unity Colleges in Nigeria



All content is Copyrighted © 2017 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
