  * English
  * En Français



# AllAfrica

  * By AllAfrica
  * myAfrica
  * Travel
  * blogAfrica
  * Sources



# Free Headlines:

  * Email
  * RSS
  * My Account



  * HotNow\!
  * Countries
    * All Countries

AlgeriaAngolaBeninBotswanaBurkina FasoBurundiCameroonCape VerdeCentral African RepublicChadComorosCongo-BrazzavilleCongo-KinshasaCote d'Ivoire

DjiboutiEgyptEquatorial GuineaEritreaEthiopiaGabonGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea BissauKenyaLesothoLiberiaLibya

MadagascarMalawiMaliMauritaniaMauritiusMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNigerNigeriaRwandaSenegalSeychellesSierra Leone

SomaliaSouth AfricaSouth SudanSudanSwazilandSão Tomé and PríncipeTanzaniaTogoTunisiaUgandaWestern SaharaZambiaZimbabwe

    * Africa-Wide
    * Central Africa

AngolaBurundiCameroonCentral African RepublicChadCongo-Brazzaville

Congo-KinshasaEquatorial GuineaGabonRwandaSão Tomé and Príncipe

    * East Africa

BurundiComorosDjiboutiEritreaEthiopiaKenyaMadagascarMauritius

RwandaSeychellesSomaliaSouth SudanSudanTanzaniaUganda

    * North Africa

AlgeriaEgyptLibyaMoroccoTunisiaWestern Sahara

    * Southern Africa

AngolaBotswanaLesothoMalawiMozambique

NamibiaSouth AfricaSwazilandZambiaZimbabwe

    * West Africa

BeninBurkina FasoCameroonCape VerdeCote d'IvoireGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea Bissau

LiberiaMaliMauritaniaNigerNigeriaSenegalSierra LeoneSão Tomé and PríncipeTogo

  * Topics
    * All Topics

AIDSAfrica on the MoveAgribusinessAid and AssistanceArms and ArmiesAsia, Australia, and AfricaAthleticsBankingBook ReviewsBooksBusinessCapital FlowsChildrenClimateCommoditiesCompanyConflictConstructionCorruptionCurrenciesDebtEcotourismEducationEnergyEntertainmentEnvironment

Europe and AfricaExternal RelationsFood and AgricultureGame ParksGovernanceHealthHuman RightsICTInfrastructureInnovationInternational OrganisationsInvestmentLabourLand and Rural IssuesLatin America and AfricaLegal AffairsMalariaManufacturingMediaMiddle East and AfricaMigrationMiningMusicMusic ReviewsNGONutrition

OceansOlympicsPeacekeepingPetroleumPolioPregnancy and ChildbirthPrivatizationRefugeesReligionScienceSoccerSportStock MarketsSustainable DevelopmentTerrorismTradeTransportTravelTuberculosisU.S., Canada and AfricaUrban IssuesWaterWildlifeWomenWorld Cup

    * Entertainment

Book ReviewsBooksMusicMusic Reviews

    * Business

AgribusinessBankingCapital FlowsCommoditiesCompanyConstructionCurrenciesDebtEnergyICTInfrastructureInvestmentLabourManufacturingMiningPetroleumPrivatizationStock MarketsTradeTransport

    * Conflict

Arms and ArmiesPeacekeepingRefugeesTerrorism

    * Environment

ClimateOceansWaterWildlife

    * Health

AIDSMalariaNutritionPolioPregnancy and ChildbirthTuberculosis

    * Sport

AthleticsOlympicsSoccerWorld Cup

    * Travel

EcotourismGame Parks

  * Development
    * Aid and Assistance
    * Education
    * Environment
    * Food and Agriculture
    * Health
    * Women
  * BizTech
    * BizTech Home
    * Agribusiness
    * Banking
    * Capital Flows
    * Commodities
    * Company
    * Construction
    * Currencies
    * Debt
    * Energy
    * ICT
    * Infrastructure
    * Investment
    * Labour
    * Manufacturing
    * Mining
    * Petroleum
    * Privatization
    * Stock Markets
    * Trade
    * Transport
  * Entertainment
    * Book Reviews
    * Books
    * Music
    * Music Reviews
  * Sport
    * Athletics
    * Olympics
    * Soccer
    * World Cup
  * Africa/World
    * Asia, Australia, and Africa
    * Europe and Africa
    * International Organisations
    * Latin America and Africa
    * Middle East and Africa
    * U.S., Canada and Africa
  * Governance
    * Corruption
    * Governance
    * Human Rights
    * Land and Rural Issues
    * Legal Affairs
    * Media
    * NGO
  * Multimedia
    * Video
    * Audio
    * Document
    * Web Site
    * InFocus Pages
    * PhotoEssays
  * Innovation



  *   *  
  * 


## Leadership \(Abuja\)

Email Print Share

# Nigeria: Major Shakeup in Army - COAS Redeploys 317 Officers

By Bayo Oladeji, 29 January 2013

Photo: Leadership   


Nigerian army headquarters 

Following the recent promotions and retirements in the Nigerian Army, the Chief of Army Staff \(COAS\), Lt.-Gen. Onyemoabi Azubike Ihejirika yesterday redeployed 317 senior officers to fill the vacuum created by the wind of the retirements.

LEADERSHIP had exclusively reported last week about the impending redeployment that would affect all the Army units and formations.

According to a statement issued in Abuja and signed by the out-going Director, Army Public Relations, Maj-Gen. Mobolaji Koleosho, the COAS said the action was taken "to fill the vacuum and maintain effective command structure in Army units, formations and the Defence Headquarters."

The new GOCs are 3 Division, Maj-Gen. Ebiobowei Awala, 2 Division, Maj-Gen. Ahmed Jibrin, the former Commander, Nigerian Army Engineers, Maj-Gen Ashimiyu Olaniyi is now the new GOC 82 Division while the new GOC 81 Division is Maj-Gen. Obi Umahi and the new Army Headquarters Garrison Commander is Maj-Gen. Obidah Ethan.

Other affected senior officers are the former GOC 81 Division, Maj-Gen. Kenneth T.J. Minimah now the Commander, Infantry Corps and Centre, Jaji, the former Chief of Training and Operations, Nigerian Army Major Genral Lawrence Ngubane is now the Chief of Training and Operations at the Defence Headquarters, the former GOC 3 Division, Maj-Gen. Jack Nwaogbo is now the Chief of Training and Opeartions at Army Headquarters, former GOC 2 Division, Maj-Gen. Mohammed Abubakar is now the Chief of Army Administration at the Army Headquarters.

According to the statement, Maj-Gen. Paul Isang is the new Chief of Army Standard and Evaluation \(CASE\) succeeding Maj-Gen. Shehu Abdul-Kadir who has been appointed the Force Commander of the African-led International Support Mission for Mali \(AFISMA\). The new Commander for the Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command \(TRADOC\) is Maj-Gen. Babagana Munguno, Maj-Gen. Daniel Kitchener is now Chief of Logistics at the Army Headquarters while Maj-Gen. Emmanuel Bassey becomes the Chief of Policy and Plans popularly known as COPP.

Other new appointments include Maj-Gen. Obinali Ariahu, now the Chief of Research and Development at the Defence Headquarters; Maj-Gen. John Zaruwa is named the Coordinator, Peacekeeping Operations at the Ministry of Defence, Maj-Gen. Salihu Uba is now the Commandant, Nigerian Army Peacekeeping Centre; the former Defence Adviser, UN Headquarters, New York, Maj-Gen. Garba Audu is now Chief of Logistics, Defence Headquarters, the new Director General, Defence Industries Cororation \[DICON\] is Maj-Gen. Ekwenugo Chioba and Maj-Gen. Abubakar Gana is the new Commandant, Nigerian Army School of Logistics \(NACOL\). The former Commandant, Maj-Gen. Adekunle Martins is now Commander, Nigerian Army Ordinance Corps while the new Commander, Nigerian Army Signals \[NAS\] is Maj-Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin.

The Commander, Nigerian Army Supply and Transport Corps is now Maj-Gen. Emmanuel Nienge while the Commander, Nigerian Army Armoured Corps \(NAAC\) is now Maj-Gen. John Nwaoga. Maj-Gen. Bolaji Koleosho has been redeployed as the new Chief of Civil-Military Affairs from the Director, Army Public Relations while Brigadier General Ibrahim Attahiru has succeeded him as the Army spokesman. Maj-Gen. Bitrus Kwaji who left office for Koleosho is now the Group Managing Director, Nigerian Army Welfare Limited and Guarantee \(NAWLG\).

  *   *  
  * 


Copyright © 2013 Leadership. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media \(allAfrica.com\). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here.

AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over 130 African news organizations, plus more than 200 other sources, who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica.

# InFocus

## Nigerian Army Redeploys Senior Officers

The army authorities have redeployed 317 senior officers to fill the vacancies created by the recent promotion and retirement of a number of senior officers. Read more »

  * Nigeria:  Major Shakeup in Army - COAS Redeploys 317 Officers
  * Nigeria:  Shake-Up in the Army



  * More stories from this day»



# Follow AllAfrica

  *   *   *   *   *   *   * 


  


AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC. 

© 2014 AllAfrica // Privacy // Contact

Subscribe to AllAfrica via RSS

AllAfrica - All the Time 
