  * Opinion
  * Play Games
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates



Tuesday, December 27, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * \#PanamaPapers
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Business Specials
    * Opinion
  * Health
    * News Reports
    * Investigations
    * Data and Infographics
    * Health Specials
    * Features
    * Events
    * Primary Health Tracker
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch



## Nigerian Army ends Operation Python Dance in South-East – Official

December 26, 2016Agency Report

FILE PHOTO: Nigerian Soldiers 

### Related News

The Operation Python Dance inaugurated by the Nigerian Army in the south-east geo-political zone to curb crime in the area during the yuletide will end on December 27.

The Deputy Director, Public Relations, 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Sagir Musa, made the disclosure in a telephone interview on Monday.

The operation was launched to span from November 27 to December 27.

“The Exercise will end on December 27, as earlier indicated.

“However, troops will still be massively around in the whole of South-East to continue with patrols, road blocks and check points.

“Nigeria’s South-East has not recorded incidence of armed robbery, kidnapping, cultism and associated violence as well as inter-communal, herdsmen-farmers clashes during this Yuletide due to the on-going military exercise in the region tagged Operation Python Dance.

“These menaces are and have been the focus and targets of this exercise which has so far been successful,” Mr. Musa said.

The army spokesman said that the General Officer Commanding 82 Division, Adamu Abubakar, visited Awka, Agulu, Nnobi, Ihiala and Okija communities in Anambra State on December 25 to assess the conduct of troops.

He said the GOC was also at the Niger Bridge to assess the state of security and vehicular movements.

“It would be recalled that traffic gridlock has for many years, especially during the yuletide, been endemic on the Niger Bridge at both Asaba and Onitsha axis inflicting suffering and other inconveniences on road users.

“Hence, part of the target for the exercise is to check the usual gridlock, chaos and insecurity on the Bridge. This objective has so far been achieved.

“Since the start of Exercise Python Dance, there has not been any case of gridlock and associated insecurity on the Asaba-Onitsha Bridge.

“The orderliness, the disposition of combined security personnel and the manner the general public conducted themselves, especially the road users is commendable,” he emphasised.

Mr. Musa urged members of the public to remain security conscious and to report any suspicious movements and persons to security agencies nearest to them.

\(NAN\)

  *   *   * Telegram
  * Tweet
  * Email
  *   * Print
  * WhatsApp
  *   * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   * Pocket

  * Press This
  *   *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Telegram
  * Tweet
  * Email
  *   * Print
  * WhatsApp
  *   * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   * Pocket

  * Press This
  *   *   *   *   * 


* * *

DOWNLOAD THE PREMIUM TIMES MOBILE APP

Now available on

   
  
* * *

TEXT AD:Dr Dan,Suggest 5 Ways to Satisfy Your system and Last up 25Min In Bed When Having Sex, Click Here...

* * *

All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

### More in South East

  * ###  Ebonyi buys 18 Prado SUVs worth N279 million for traditional rulers 

  * ###  Obasanjo urges Igbo ‘unity’

  * ###  Imo retirees protest 60% pension cut 

  * ###  I will not abandon PDP – Governor Umahi 

  * ###  Buhari to declare open South-East Economic and Security Summit 

  * ###  Nigerian prison inmates protest ban of marijuana 




### Top News

  * ###  Two killed as female suicide bombers attack Maiduguri cattle market 

  * ###  Nigeria to establish ICT university in 2017 – Minister 

  * ###  Looming Strike: Resident doctors urge Nigerian govt to intervene 




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 12,083 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

### Promoted Content

  * Core TV News debuts on Abuja digital terrestrial

  * Stylish, Sleek, Sophisticated: The Gionee S6S is rated S+

  * How to overcome premature ejaculation and last longer in bed

  * AUN to hold scholarship examinations across Nigeria


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us
  * Resources
    * List of Universities in Nigeria
    * List of Federal Unity Colleges in Nigeria



All content is Copyrighted © 2016 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
