The Punch - Nigeria's Most Widely Read Newspaper

Breaking News, information and opinion in Nigeria

July 26th, 2015

  * Home
  * Malaria Portal
  * Columnists
    * Pocket Lawyer
    * Mental Health Matters
    * Punchwise
    * Automedics
    * Tunde Fagbenle 'Saying it' THE WAY IT IS
    * Trivia Constitutional
  * News
  * Politics
    * Crossfire
  * Business
    * SundayCEO
    * Young Entrepreneur
    * ICT Clinic
  * Sports
    * Penetrating Passes
  * Opinion
  * Education
  * Health
    * Sunday doctor
  * Spice
    * Home
    * Intimacy
    * Local Entertainment
    * My Favourites
    * Celebrity Couple
    * Love Series
  * Feature
    * Interview
    * Famous Parents


  * Blogs
  * Jobs



You are here: Home / News / Army redeploys 127 senior officers

# Army redeploys 127 senior officers

February 13, 2014 : Fidelis Soriwei 

  
  


Chief of Army Staff, General Kenneth Minimah

The authorities of the Nigerian Army have announced the posting and appointment of 127 senior officers.

The massive redeployment, which came barely a month after the last exercise by the former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika, affected 36 major-generals, 52 brigadier-generals and 39 Colonels.

With the new postings, the former Military.Secretary, Maj.-Gen. E.B Awala, is now the Chief of Training and Operations at the Defence Headquarters; Maj.-Gen. F.M Airende becomes the Director, Training and Evaluations at the DHQ while Maj.-Gen. K.C Osuji moves from DHQ to become the General Officer Commanding 1 Division of the Nigerian Army, Kaduna.

Also appointed were Maj.-Gen. J. Nwaoga, Director of Policy, DHQ; Maj.-Gen. A. Chukwu, Chief of Civil Military Affairs; Maj.-Gen. J.A.H Ewanshia, Chief of Training and Operation, Nigerian Army Headquarters; Maj. M.D Abubakar, Commander Infantry Corp and Centre, Kaduna; Maj.-Gen. J.S Zaruwa, GOC 3 Division, Jos; Maj.-Gen. R.I.D Isa, Coordinator, Peacekeeping Operations, Ministry of Defence and Maj. T.I Dibi, GOC 81 Div. Lagos.

Others include Maj.-Gen. E.F. Abejirin, GOC 2 Div. Ibadan; Maj.-Gen. S.N Muazu, Commandant Nigerian Army Peace Keeping Centre, Jaji; Maj.-Gen. E. Atewe, Commander JTF Operation Pulo Shield; Maj.-Gen. O.A Umahi, Director, Administration, DHQ; Maj.-Gen. T.C Ude, Director of Plans, Army Headquarters; Maj. OE Ekanem, Director of Policy, Nigerian Army Headquarters; Brig.-Gen. A.B. Omozoje, Commander, Guards Brigade and others.

The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Olajide Laleye, who announced the release of the postings in a press briefing in Abuja on Wednesday, warned the media and the populace against misinterpreting the military postings and appointments.

Laleye, who described the postings and appointments as routine in the Army, said that it would be wrong for anybody to impute wrong meanings into the exercise.

“It is important to note that posting in the Army is a routine activity that is carried out from time to time to fill existing vacancies emanating from promotion and retirement.

“Furthermore, the Nigerian Army wishes to inform the media in particular and the public in general that posting and deployment of senior officers should not be used to overheat the polity,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.  
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. 

Contact: editor@punchng.com

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Google+




Small manhood and premature ejaculation made me stay away from love making for 4 yrs... But these simple solutions WORKED\! Click Here to see my breakthrough. 

Click Here to see exact business that gave me over N340,000 in less than 2 weeks, working less than 2 hours daily.

The REAL truth about how to overcome PREMATURE EJACULATION naturally without the use of any drugs or pills, which you have never been told before... Click Here to learn the truth.

Discover how to start importing items from USA, UK, Dubai & Asia with N15,000 start up capital and earn your first N150,000 in the next 30 days. CLICK HERE to find out the new Importation Business Strategy

Discover how I generate steady N5,000-N10,000 daily on autopilot, spending 4hrs per week online.

IMPORTATION BUSINESS SEMINAR  Discover how you can start a profitable Mini-Importation business  with a start-up capital as low as 30K and make huge profit...Guaranteed\!\!\!  Attend a one day 1-on-1 live practical seminar.....Click Here

How a 29-yr-old Benin boy became a millionaire in 73 days from Watermelon business. Click Here to read his AMAZING story.

PROFITABLE FOREX TRADING: we guarantee 150% monthly profit trading your forex account for you\! Whatsapp:+2348030797998. click here: www.fenikfx.org

Small manhood and premature ejaculation made me stay away from love making for 4 yrs... But these simple solutions WORKED\! Click Here to see my breakthrough. 

  * Airport police arrest passenger for smoking on board 19:17 / Comments 
  * Pneumonia, diarrhea kill 195,000 Nigerian children annually – Expert 19:17 / Comments 
  * 18 police recruits injured in Egypt’s Sinai bus blast 19:12 / Comments 
  * Eight pupils drown in Akwa Ibom river 18:58 / Comments 

More »




#### More Stories in News

##  Airport police arrest passenger for smoking on board 

July 26th, 2015 /  No Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  Pneumonia, diarrhea kill 195,000 Nigerian children annually - Expert 

July 26th, 2015 /  No Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  18 police recruits injured in Egypt's Sinai bus blast 

July 26th, 2015 /  No Comments    
Read Full Story 

  * Harry

Army busy redeploying; Boko Haram busy unleashing terror on people.

  * One love

It is very bad. Nigeria forces are not capable to stop Boko Haram. So Nigeria should contact ALLIED FORCES against BOKO Haram.

    * philip

You should not be rude to the Military who has sacrificed so much in terms of personnel. The fight against insurgent has been a success. Kudos to our gallant military 

      * Akinoges

Thank you for been a sane voice around here. Some folks just love to parrot what they hear; too lazy to lift a foot to verify what is facts or beer parlour tittle tattle prattling. The security outfits have indeed done well. In this asymmetrical war there have been major gains, and the odd setbacks. The security outfits will win this war for Nigerians. However, it remains for the FG/MOD/Minister of Finance to provide the equipments to our valiant Officers and Men at the frontline to get this job wrapped up in good time.

    * Afeez Alade

How do you differentiate between an unarmed boko haram terrorist and a Hausa man in Maiduguri? When you are able to answer that question, I will explain why we need to encourage our security forces. Many of them have lost their lives protecting you and I, striving to protect the territorial integrity of this nation. They make these sacrifices, not because the government cares about them better than they care about us but because they feel they are doing their duty to their fatherland. The least we can do is to respect them and recognize the sacrifices they are making not come here to rubbish their effort. The Americans fought with the taliban for more than 10 years, spending hundreds of billions of dollars in the process. Now, they are seeking dialogue with the taliban. That is just to show you that the war on terror is not an easy one.

  * paul bekson

the Nigerian army should also redeploy the current soldiers fighting boko haram in the north and replace them with fresh ones as is done with any military assignment if they really want to win the war against boko haram

  * Femi Pedro

Perhaps the army should not overheat the polity themselves by not making such statements and reducing almost daily postings and movement. It creates instability.

  * zygot

All is noise\! The more they deploy the more BH is killing. the only deployment Nigeria needs now, is the inspector general and chief of army staff to be deployed to Borno State permanently till peace returns to Nigeria . Period\!




#### Recommended Stories

##  Tambuwal, Awolowo and free education 

July 26th, 2015 /  4 Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  My father goes to farm at dawn daily — Ahmed Joda’s son 

July 26th, 2015 /  1 Comment    
Read Full Story 

##  Of politics and lies 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  My wife sleeps around 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  OSHOALA: FROM IDUMOTA TO GLOBAL ACCLAIM 

July 26th, 2015 /  1 Comment    
Read Full Story 

##  Making Iran’s nuclear deal work 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

#### Related Stories

##  States yet to get FG's bailout funds - Oshiomhole 

July 26th, 2015 /  31 Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  Two-year-old baby dies in Bayelsa fire 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  NASS crisis, normal democratic process – Ahmed 

July 26th, 2015 /  11 Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  Ortom promises cash, amnesty for returned arms 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  PDP condemns Ambode's N39bn loan 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

##  Sanitation: Ogun deputy gov arrests 45 offenders 

July 26th, 2015 /  Comments    
Read Full Story 

  * Most Read
  * Recent Comments
  * Most Commented



  * Police confirm Senate forgery
  * Tinubu behind Toyin Saraki’s EFCC ordeal — Sen. Waku
  * Timaya raped me — US lady
  * Gbajabiamila’s ex-loyalists accept Dogara’s offer
  * Benue varsity students dump colleague’s corpse at VC’s office



  * Oreagba Akeem Afolabi on Gbajabiamila’s ex-loyalists accept Dogara’s offer
  * okonofua okonofua on States yet to get FG’s bailout funds – Oshiomhole
  * IykeNdigbo on Police confirm Senate forgery
  * musa aliyu on Police confirm Senate forgery
  * Adedayo Akinwumi on Police confirm Senate forgery



  * Probe: Don't humiliate Jonathan, Igbo group warns Buhari 
  * Police confirm Senate forgery 
  * Tinubu behind Toyin Saraki’s EFCC ordeal — Sen. Waku 
  * Gbajabiamila’s ex-loyalists accept Dogara’s offer 
  * Timaya raped me — US lady 



#### Online crew diary

## Reactions to Obasanjo’s statement: I chose Yar’Adua because others were corrupt

More Posts...

#### Opinion

## Buhari: From Washington with dignity

  * What a friend Nigeria has in US



More Posts >>>

#### Columnists

Tambuwal, Awolowo and free education 

“The foundation of every state is the education of its youths” — Diogenes Laertius. One of the most noticeable aspects…

Read More

  * >> Of politics and lies 

  * >> Is CSR worth the trouble for companies? \(1\) 

  * >> Causes of start-up problems 

  * >> Time for referendum on NASS 

  * >> REACTIONS TO AUTOMEDICS 

  * >> Signs that a marriage is over 

“Tinubu does not run or dictate to the EFCC. And like countless others, Tinubu had also been investigated by the EFCC several times in the past. Tinubu has no hand in the travails of anyone because he is right now very busy, working with others of like minds on how the APC political agenda can set sail as quickly as possible. That is the urgency of now and not the tantrums of the likes of Waku.”

Tinubu’s Media Adviser, Mr. Sunday Dare, saying no one should pay Senator Waku any attention and that Tinubu has no hand in the EFCC questioning Saraki's wife.

#### Connect With Us

      * Facebook

      * Twitter

      * Google+

      * RSS

#### Business & Economy

## Insecurity threatens Arepo burst pipeline repairs – NNPC

Return to top of page . Switch to Mobile

Copyright © 2015 Punch Nigeria Limited · Terms of Service . Advertise . Contact Us . Log in
