# 

Tuesday, September 18, 2018

Toggle navigation

  * Home
  * News 
    * General
    * City News
    * International
  * Business
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Editorial 
    * Editorial
    * Letters
    * Opinion
  * Feature
  * Multimedia 
    * Audio
    * Photos
    * Videos
  * Investigation
  * Exclusive 
    * Exclusive columns
    * Exclusive Stories
  * Live Blog
  *   * Tenders



Toggle navigation

  * Agriculture
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Health
  * Home Front
  * Islamic Forum
  * IT World
  * Jobs & career
  * Labour
  * Law
  * Next Level
  * Property
  * Women In Business



Breaking News

Buhari in Osogbo to rally for APC candidate ahead of Saturday pollsDelta Govt sets up temporary IDP Camp for flood victimsKano Assembly confirms Gawuna as Deputy GovernorUEFA Champions League fixtures for Tuesday 18th SeptemberMalnutrition: 58% of under-5 children in Kano stunted—CS-SUNN

  1. Home
  2. General
  3. Army test officers’ proficiency in handling of weapons, military drills



ADVERTISEMENT

# Army test officers’ proficiency in handling of weapons, military drills

By . | Published Date Jul 30, 2018 13:27 PMAug 9, 2018 9:41 AM

  * Click to share on Twitter \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Facebook \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on WhatsApp \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Telegram \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Google+ \(Opens in new window\)
  * More
  * 


  * Click to print \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on LinkedIn \(Opens in new window\)
  *   * Click to share on Reddit \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Tumblr \(Opens in new window\)
  *   * Click to share on Skype \(Opens in new window\)
  * 


Officers of the 81 Division, Nigerian Army, on Monday embarked on proficiency test on how to handle weapons effectively and military drills.

ADVERTISEMENT

The News Agency of Nigeria \(NAN\) reports that the test is part of the capacity building and leadership qualities embarked upon by the army for its officers.

The four-day exercise for officers from the rank of Major and below took place at 9 Brigade, Nigerian Army Cantonment at Ikeja in Lagos State.

ADVERTISEMENT

No fewer than 48 officers were participating in the exercise which also include: obstacles’ crossing, map reading, shooting competition, physical fitness and combat swimming.

The officers were drawn from the 9 Brigade, 35 Artillery Brigade, 45 Division Engineers and 81 Division Garrison of the Nigerian Army.

The GOC of 81 Division, Maj.-Gen. Enobong Udoh, said at the flag off that the exercise was organised to improve the soldiers’ leadership traits.

The GOC was represented by the 9Brigade Commander, Brig.-Gen. Moundhey Ali.

“Training is the critical element that builds and sustains professionalism as it equips the personnel with the skill and competence to perform tasks in all situations.

“It is obvious that our profession is full of risks that are difficult to circumvent and the only path to navigate these difficult paths is through continuous training.

“Hence, training has a crucial role in the attainment of professionalism,” he said.

The GOC said the competition was organised with the primary goal of improving the leadership traits of junior commanders.

He added that part of the goal was also aimed at sharpening their organisational abilitities and inculcating initiatives in the stipulated rank bracket of Lieutenant to Major.

“It is only through proper realistic training and steadfast/ethical leadership that such officers can attain their full capabilities to be combat effective.

“The leadership roles played by Majors and below, shape the quality of command and control in every unit and formation,” he said.

Earlier, the Chief of Staff, 9 Brigade, Col. Olusola Diya in his address of welcome, said that the combat proficiency competition was aimed at improving leadership qualities of junior commanders.

“To all officers, I urge you to ensure the spirit of sportsmanship and wish you the best of luck,” he said.

### Related

Sharing

  * Click to share on Twitter \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Facebook \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on WhatsApp \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Telegram \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Google+ \(Opens in new window\)
  * More
  * 


  * Click to print \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on LinkedIn \(Opens in new window\)
  *   * Click to share on Reddit \(Opens in new window\)
  * Click to share on Tumblr \(Opens in new window\)
  *   * Click to share on Skype \(Opens in new window\)
  * 


#### Join us on

Follow @daily\_trust  
  
Send DTM to 4900 \(MTN\) or DTM to 655 \(Etisalat\) for regular updates and more  
  
Share your story with us: 08189301900 \(Whatsapp and SMS only\) Email: dtonline@dailytrust.com Or use this form  
  
Complain about a story or Report an error and/or correction: +2348189301900 

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

#### News by states

Click on a state to view related news

### Trending Stories

  * Ronaldo breaks record in Serie A debut 
  * Ganduje picks Gawuna as deputy 
  * How I got Fake NYSC certificate - Adeosun 
  * Earth tremor in Abuja 
  * Al-Makura, Sen Adamu draw battle line 
  * Police react to Osun lawmaker allegedly caught during ?ritual’ bathing 
  * Ministry of Finance: 8 things you need to know about Zainab Ahmed 
  * Osun lawmaker caught taking 'ritual' bath inside bush at night 



### Follow us on Twitter

My Tweets

  *   *   *   * Back to top 



#### Daily

  * News
  * Politics
  * Business
  * International
  * Digest
  * City News
  * Opinion
  * Editorial
  * Letters
  * Sports
  * Health
  * Photo news



####  Week Day Specials

  * IT World
  * Law
  * Labour
  * Property
  * Environment
  * Aso chronicles
  * Kano Chronicles
  * Eko Trust
  * Great Green Wall
  * Education
  * Crime
  * Agriculture
  * Islamic Forum
  * Home Front
  * Women In Business
  * Jobs and career
  * Next Level



####  Saturday Specials

  * Young Trusters
  * Entertainment
  * Tribute
  * Bookshelf
  * Around and about
  * Travel & Leisure
  * Womanhood
  * Encounters
  * Life Xtra
  * Weekend Mag
  * Saturday Comments
  * Another Dimension



####  Sunday Specials

  * Entrepreneurship
  * Media
  * Art and Ideas
  * Viewpoint
  * Global Connection
  * Penpoint
  * Wakaman
  * Sunday Comments



####  Exclusive

  * Exclusive columns
  * Exclusive Stories
  * Prof. Brainy
  * Al-Bints Diary
  * Notes from Atlanta
  * Philosofaith
  * Within the Nation
  * Reflections
  * Right motoring
  * SME Toolkit
  * Penpoint
  * Because I care
  * Politics of Grammar



  * Advertise With Us
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Terms of service
  * Feedback



1998 - 2018 Media Trust Limited. All rights reserved. SBU. 
