  * Opinion
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates
  * Play Games



Thursday, March 24, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Interviews and Profiles
    * Opinion
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch
  * Letters



## 35 bandits killed, 39 others arrested in North-East – Nigerian Army

March 19, 2016Premium Times

Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai

### Related News

The General Officer Commanding \(GOC\), 1 Division, Nigeria Army, Adeniyi Oyebade, on Friday said no fewer than 35 armed bandits have been killed in the last two months in the North West.

Mr. Oyebade, a Major-General, who disclosed this at a news briefing in Kaduna, said 38 of the bandits were also arrested by soldiers and handed over to the police for prosecution.

According to him, 6, 009 animals were recovered during the operation code-named \`Sharan Daji’, while 49 bandits’ camps were destroyed.

The GOC explained that the operation was targeted at cattle rustlers and armed bandits terrorising communities in Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna, as well as Niger States.

“In Niger, the 31 Artillery Brigade, which covers the axis, are deployed as a blocking force to intercept escaping cattle rustlers and bandits while also conducting fighting patrol around Pandogari-Kusherki, Gidigori and Pandogari-Mai Kujeri roads which serves as escape routes for the bandits.

“In Kaduna state, 465 recovered animals, 16 bandits arrested, nine bandits killed, seven weapons recovered and eight camps destroyed.

“In Zamfara state, 1,443 animals were recovered, 19 bandits arrested, 13 bandits killed, eight weapons recovered and 20 camps destroyed.

“In Katsina/Kano States, 4, 101 animals recovered, four bandits arrested, 13 bandits killed, 21 assorted guns, including three AK 47 Rifles, local weapons and bows and arrows and 10 and 11 camps destroyed in Katsina and Kano respectively,” he said

He said during the course of the various operations, the military lost one Sgt Nansel Dangnap of 2 Battalion, while three soldiers sustained varying degrees of injuries.

The GOC said a number of terrorists fleeing from the North East were also arrested.

He warned organizations and groups in the zone to desist from any act capable of causing breakdown of law and order, stressing that “under my watch any act that threatens the rule of law will not be tolerated.”

“We will continue to work hard to ensure the security of lives and property within our area of responsibility to enhance socio-economic growth and development in line with the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari.”

\(NAN\)

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

Text Ad:Before Now My Husband Had a Small Manhood and Could not Last More than 2 Minutes, now the story has changed. Click here to read our testimony.

* * *

Place your ad here    
Loading... 

### More in Top News

  * ###  Police confirm arrest of wanted Boko Haram commanders in Taraba 

  * ###  Why we met Saraki’s loyalists – Senator Marafa 

  * ###  Jonathan a role model in Africa — Colonel Abubakar Umar 

  * ###  Nigeria Police begin recruitment of 10,000 personnel 

  * ###  ‘Boko Haram’ man who threatened to bomb hotel after drinking beer pardoned 

  * ###  SSS, EFCC fail to produce ex-NSA Dasuki in court 




### Top News

  * ###  Police confirm arrest of wanted Boko Haram commanders in Taraba 

  * ###  Why we met Saraki’s loyalists – Senator Marafa 

  * ###  Jonathan a role model in Africa — Colonel Abubakar Umar 




  * e\_orpheus

Good job soldiers.  
Now, it’s time to partner with the police and rid Benue state, and others, of the marauders that are taking life and making it unbearable for the living.  
Meanwhile we are prevailing on the the government to make ‘mobile ranchery’ illegal. If you must rear cattle, setup ranches for them. Perhaps that’s even just one end of the story and deeper inter-ethnic issues are at play. Either way, time for our government at all levels to sit up and show greater regard for human life.

  * McAlfred Uta

How come the Fulani cattle owners in Zamfara, Sokoto, Kano, Katsina,Kebbi and Niger States are not armed to deter and kill bandits that rustle their cows. Contrarily the ones that roam in Benue, Taraba, Plareau, Kogi, Enugu, Ekiti, Ondo etc are licensed to carry AK 47 and there are no soldiers to stop them from sacking and occupying communities. The Police are also too lilly-livered and afraid to confront them.

  * TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO

The Army has deployed to protect Fulani cattle herders and their cattle but looked the other way when those armed cattle herders kill,kidnap,rape and expel whole communities in the middle-belt and south. Nepotism, tribalism and bigotry is the hall-mark of the present Fulani-led Nigerian government.




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 10,197 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

* * *

### LETTERS

  * LETTER: ‘UNILAG graduate with 5.00 CGPA deserves national honour’

  * LETTER: ‘Buhari lied, Sokoto has no Federal Permanent Secretary’

  * T.B Joshua releases alarming 2016 predictions


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us



All content is Copyrighted © 2015 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 

//Twitter tracking code 
