DFP

Skip to content

  * Home
  * News
  * Sports
  * Metro Plus
  * Politics
  * Business
  * Entertainment
  * Editorial
  * Opinion
  * Columnists



Sections

Search for:

713 Views 

News 

# Boko Haram attacks Bama, service chiefs to visit Borno

Published October 1, 2017October 1, 2017

Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonishakin

Olaleye Aluko and Kayode Idowu

The Nigerian Army on Saturday confirmed that Boko Haram terrorists “attempted to attack” a military outpost in Bama, where two persons were killed a policeman and an Internally Displaced Person.

The Director, Army Public Rations, 7 Division, Colonel Kingsley Samuel, confirmed this to our correspondent, adding that the IDP had been buried on Saturday.

He said, “At about 7pm on Friday, troops of 202 Battalion, 21 Brigade, repelled a Boko Haram terrorists’ attack on an outpost within the Bama general area. Unfortunately, a police personnel was killed in action while a female Internally Displaced Person was hit by a stray bullet.

“The Commander of 21 Brigade visited the location of the attack on Saturday. He later proceeded to attend the burial of the deceased IDP where he commiserated with the IDP community on her demise.

“The Nigerian Army Mobile Strike Teams of Operation Lafiya Dole also on Friday laid an ambush for the terrorists crossing Bocobs village along Banki Junction in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State.

“The troops sprung the attack on the unsuspecting terrorists and neutralised one of them while several others escaped with gunshot wounds. The ambush party recovered several Items from the ambush site, including three bicycles, five jerricans and two bags.”

Meanwhile, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, and the three service chiefs will be in Maiduguri, Borno State, on Independence Day \(today\) to meet with the troops over the Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East.

The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar; and the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ete-Ibas, are expected to meet with the troops at the Theatre Command headquarters of the Operation Lafiya Dole, which is the military operation against the terrorists.

SUNDAY PUNCH learnt that the visit was to review strategies in tackling the insurgents, the capture of Boko Haram leaders including the evasive Abubakar Shekau, and the rescue of victims still held by the terrorists.

Four lecturers of the University of Maiduguri, Borno State, who went for an oil exploration exercise, are among the captives still being held by Boko Haram.

The Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, and the theatre command’s spokesman, Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, confirmed the visit of the military high command.

He said, “The CDS and other service chiefs are scheduled to visit Operation Lafiya Dole on October 1, where they will address the troops.”

Meanwhile, the Special Military Task Force codenamed Operation Safe Haven on Saturday deployed more soldiers and many plain-security operatives in several locations and public places in Plateau State.

The security outfit carried out a programme called “Show of Force” in major streets in Jos metropolis to tell those who have a bad intention to have a rethink.

Apart from the military, all the security operatives, including the police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Nigerian Customs Service, Nigerian Immigration Service and Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency were involved in OPSH.

The spokesperson for the STF, Captain Umar Adams, in an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH in Jos, said the OPSH was ready to deal with perpetrators of violence.

He said, “We have beefed up security at our checkpoints by deploying more soldiers. We are also carrying out aggressive patrol of every nook andcranny of Plateau State.”

Copyright PUNCH.  
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: \[email protected\]

 

\(Visited 3,084 times, 1 visits today\)

### Receive Alerts on: Whatsapp: +2349090060943, Twitter: @MobilePunch, BBM: C003D3DC0

### Share your story with us:  SMS: +2349090060943, Whatsapp: +2349090060943, Email: \[email protected\]

### Share this story on

boko haram  Boko Haram attack 

## DSS arrests Boko Haram cell leader, Kidnappers of German

## Terrorists disguise as labourers to attack Madagali, Maiduguri –DHQ

## Army foils Boko Haram attack, kills five

## Is govt’s decision to use $1bn to fund fight against Boko Haram justified?

## Boko Haram: Storm destroys 1,000 displaced persons homes in northeast

## Borno sets up boarding schools for children orphaned by Boko Haram

## Education is priority in Boko Haram ravaged North East – UNICEF

## John Kerry to meet Buhari, northern govs over Boko Haram

Just in

  * ### VIDEO: Woman assaults customer over unpaid beer debt

2:39 pm

  * ### 2018 Hajj: First batch of Katsina State pilgrims arrive in Madinah

2:34 pm

  * ### Lagos releases N2.04bn to pensioners in three months

2:29 pm

  * ### Landslide kills woman, seven children

2:21 pm

  * ### BREAKING: Osun APC deputy chairman leads 6,208 members to ADP

2:17 pm

  * Read More



  


  * Family
  * Spice
  * Special Features
  * Education
  * Vox Pop
  * Sex & Relationship
  * Letters


  * Privacy Policy
  * Advertise



punchng.com © 1971-2018 The Punch newspaper 
