  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advert Rates
  * Archives
  * Jobs
  * Videos
  * Subscribe to Newsletter
  * Sporting Life Advert Rates



##  The Nation A news breaking website. Truth in Defence of Freedom

  * News
  * Columnists
    * Monday
      * Sam Omatseye
      * Soji Omotunde
      * Emeka Omeihe
      * Femi Macaulay
    * Tuesday
      * Olatunji Dare
      * Olakunle Abimbola
      * Sanya Oni
      * Waheed Odusile
    * Wednesday
      * Mohammed Harunna
      * Dele Agekameh
      * Tony Marinho
    * Thursday
      * Gbenga Omotoso
      * Lawal Ogienagbon
      * Dapo Fafowora
      * Jide Osuntokun
      * Jide Oluwajuyitan
      * Gbogun gboro
    * Friday
      * Segun Gbadegesin
      * Olatunji Ololade
      * Mobolaji Sanusi
      * Femi Abbas
      * Steve Osuji
    * Saturday
      * Segun Ayobolu
      * Ade Ojeikere
      * Yomi Odunuga
      * Dayo Sobowale
      * Victor Akande
      * Hannatu Musawa
    * Sunday
      * Tatalo Alamu
      * Idowu Akinlotan
      * Festus Eriye
      * Biodun Jeyifo
      * Ropo Sekoni
      * Femi Orebe
      * Tunji Adegboyega
      * Lekan Otufodunrin
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Infotech
    * Aviation
    * Money
    * Maritime
    * Capital Market
    * Building & Properties
    * Motoring
    * Jobs
    * Insurance
    * Industry
    * Energy
    * Agriculture
    * Equities
    * Labour
    * Brand week
    * Shopping
    * Transportation
  * Editorial
    * Hardball
    * Cartoon
  * sports
  * HEALTH
  * Entertainment
    * Celebrity
  * Magazine
    * Niger Delta
    * Northern Report
    * SouthEast
    * Southwest
    * Saturday Magazine
      * Weekend Treat
        * Happenstances
        * Life and Style
        * Promenade
      * Crime Diary
      * Family Matters
      * Fashion
    * Sunday magazine
      * Glamour
      * Young Nation
      * Worship
  * Education
    * Campus Life



Home » News Update » Military recounts troop’s success in Adamawa

# Military recounts troop’s success in Adamawa

Posted by: Agency Reporter  in News Update March 10, 2015

Major General Fatai Alli, General Officer Commanding \(GOC\), 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, on Tuesday reiterated the successes recorded by troops in the fight against insurgents in far North eastern state of Adamawa.

Alli said troops have recaptured almost all towns in Adamawa earlier held by insurgents except Madagali, headquarters of Madagali Local Government.

The Major General disclosed this when some newsmen were taken on a guided tour of liberated towns in Hong, Mubi and Michika Local Government Areas of the state.

Maj.-Gen. Chris Ogunkolade, the Director, Defence Information, who led the tour, said it was to give the journalists the opportunity to see the situation on ground.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria \(NAN\), some of the recaptured towns include Hong, Kaala, Makera, Mararraba Mubi, Maiha, Mubi North, Mubi South, Uba, Kudzum, Bazza, Michika and Shuwa.

The GOC said operations to recapture Madagali were ongoing, and vowed that all territories held by the terrorists would be liberated soon.

Alli attributed the successes recorded by troops in the war against the insurgents to recent acquisition of weapons, better coordination, motivation and training of personnel.

“Boko Haram has been substantially degraded, the flow of arms and ammunition to them has reduced drastically, their financial support has been blocked by financial measures adopted by the international community,” he said.

Similarly, Brig-Gen Victor Ezeugwu, the Commanding Officer, 28 Task Force Brigade, Hong, described the recapture of Mararraba and Mubi as a ‘watershed’ in the fight against Boko Haram in Adamawa.

Ezeugwu further added that the town was a strategic supply route for the insurgents.

He said the brigade had also captured over 100 insurgents and handed them over to relevant security agencies for further investigation.

Among the three towns reportedly visited, Michika was the most hit by the terrorists, as most structures in the town had been destroyed.

Some of the structures destroyed included the Divisional Police Office, Local Government secretariat, Emir’s palace, Mosques, Churches, banks, market and the general hospital.

It was reliably gathered that the insurgents destroyed the structures while fleeing the onslaught by the military to recapture the town.

It was also reported that residents of the affected areas had not returned as at the time of the visit.

Meanwhile, the Emir of Mubi, Alhaji Abubakar Ahmadu, has restated his call on his subjects to return, saying that the area had been secured by the military.

Ahmadu told the visiting journalists that at his palace that it was important for the residents to return so as to help in the rebuilding process.

“I will plead with the people of Mubi to come home so that we develop Mubi.

“Mubi is now in peace, so everybody should come; I have come back to Mubi, I am not going anywhere except on official assignment,” he said.

Adamawa insurgency Nigerian Army 2015-03-10

Agency Reporter

  * tweet
  *   *   *   *   * 


Previous: Segun Arinze as a young man

Next: Photo: UTME begins across the country

#### The Latest 

  * ### Sylva re-arraigned over N2.45bn fraud

14 mins ago
  * ### WHO to Nigeria: War against polio must not fail

20 mins ago
  * ### Burundi president sacks defence minister

34 mins ago
  * ### Obiano appoints five new commissioners

45 mins ago
  * ### Photos: Bicyclers travel to congratulate gov-elect

50 mins ago
  * ### Buhari must reciprocate Nigerians’ goodwill – Gambari

54 mins ago
  * ### Photo: Better healthcare for custom officals

1 hour ago
  * ### Fuel scarcity: NUPENG alleges closure of depots to tanker drivers

1 hour ago
  * ### Jonathan to attend ECOWAS summit in Ghana

2 hours ago
  * ### 197 drug convicts evaded prison – NDLEA chief

2 hours ago



#### Archives

May 2015 M T W T F S S  
« Apr      
 123  
45678910  
11121314151617  
18192021222324  
25262728293031  
  
#### Past Archives

Archive 1 \(2006-2008\)

Archive 2 \(articles before June 22nd 2010\)

Archive 3 \(articles before April 16 2011\)

Archive 4 \(articles between April 2011 and September 20, 2012\)

#### More from News Update

  * Sylva re-arraigned over N2.45bn fraud
  * WHO to Nigeria: War against polio must not fail
  * Burundi president sacks defence minister
  * Obiano appoints five new commissioners
  * Buhari must reciprocate Nigerians’ goodwill – Gambari



#### Stay Connected

#### 

© 2013, Powered By Zero-One
