Skip to content

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Search for:

Sunday 26 August

Sunday 26 August

Follow @vanguardngrnews

## Vanguard News

A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Nigeria news, Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc

Search for:

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Sports
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
    * Motoring
  * Entertainment
  * Allure
  * Videos
  * Editorial
  * Viewpoint
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Article of Faith
    * Talking Point
    * People & Politics
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * My World
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * Nigeria Today
    * Vista Woman
  * Relationships



More

Breaking News

Translate

# Dickson receives Buratai, urges him to help make Bayelsa foremost tourist, economic hub

On March 5, 20181:43 pmIn News by TonyComments

The Bayelsa state Governor, Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson has urged the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Col. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, who is on a working visit to the state to help make Bayelsa the foremost tourist and economic hub.

Buratai who is in the state to officially conduct the ground breaking ceremony of the 16th brigade command barracks, paid a courtesy call to Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson at the Government House, Yenagoa on 5th of March 2018.

Governor Dickson and Buratai

In his brief remark, the army chief who arrived yesterday, extolled the Governor’s numerous developmental strides in infrastructure, health, education and security as well as the contributions of the his administration to the Nigerian Army. The Chief of Army Staff commended the governor for supporting the establishment and take-off of the 16th brigade command barracks.

In his words, the ground breaking ceremony officially commences the operations of the 16th brigade command in the state of which the Bayelsa State Government immensely contributed to.

Governor Dickson, Buratai and his entourage

 

Lt. Col. Buratai also mentioned that the brigade will host the military engineering unit as well as health and educational facilities.

In his response, Governor Dickson, on behalf of the government and people of the state, welcomed the Chief to the state. The governor also thanked him for the support, encouragement and collaboration between the unit and state.

The governor thanked the army chief for their partnership with the State in the area of engineering as evident in the Agge deep sea port project as well as their partnership in the educational sector which for the first time has produced an Army Children School in Bayelsa State.

The governor also expressed commendation at the professionalism and leadership of the army chief and his colleagues in protecting the intergrity of the nation and called for support for the army.

‘Our State is one of the safest states in the region. This is due to the clear-headed leadership and professionalism of the security agencies and the mobilisation of communities and the citizenry’

‘The aspiration of my government grounded on security, is to make Bayelsa the foremost investment and tourism hub. We have already achieved this in the educational and health sectors being products of our six years of clear headed leadership’

‘If we must tackle militancy, we must invest in education and provide skills for our youths to compete favourably in an ever increasing global economy.’

The event was attended by top government officials and traditional rulers from across the state.

### Related

## Tony

View all posts by Tony →

Previous Post

#### Court sacks Oba of Egbe

Next Post

#### NSCDC nabs 12 oil thieves, impounds 10 trucks with stolen products

  


## Disclaimer

Comments expressed here do not reflect the opinions of vanguard newspapers or any employee thereof. 

## Latest News

  * 1:09 amHow our seven years of childlessness ended at APGA — Mr and Mrs Amaechi

  * 1:07 amTaraba 2019: How I will re-unite my people- Aliyu Omar

  * 12:54 amMTN thrills children as it launches mPulse

  * 12:52 amAnxiety grips PDP presidential aspirants over endorsement by IBB, OBJ, Danjuma, Abdulsalami

  * 12:50 amOrogun monarch lauds Okowa over presentation of Staff of Office

  * 12:49 amIndustrial dispute: Kogi NUPSRAN tackles JUSUN over poaching of members

  * 12:49 amAnother bridge collapses in Niger

  * 12:46 amFOCAC SUMMIT: Buhari should engage Chinese investors in power sector – Mbisiogu

  * 12:37 amDAY 196: 6 months after: Sharibus’ anguish continues

  * 12:22 amComputer training: Team Uviejitobor graduates 50 Udu youths

  * 12:22 amEffurun Rotary Club will continue to execute projects— Rotn Duku

  * 12:11 amGDL launches low-risk mutual fund

  * 12:09 amThe devil is a servant of god

  * 12:08 amEmma Nyra dedicates ‘Love Song’ to twins

  * 12:04 amEnglish Premier League table

  * 12:03 amPremier League : Pochettino gives Mourinho a lesson

  * 11:49 pmLagos Carter Bridge structurally safe, 3rd Mainland Bridge tests progressing — officials

  * 11:47 pmBenue sanitation agency arrests 500 sanitation defaulters

  * 11:16 pmFight Against Human Trafficking: Edo Govt takes campaign to Abudu, urges residents to report traffickers

  * 10:12 pmAPC gov. aspirant donates N40m to boost opposition strength in Gombe


View All

## Editorial

  * ## Need to protect our courts

Only on 11th May this year, the Port Harcourt High Court complex in the Rivers State capital was attacked by a faction o...

  * ## Palliatives needed for importers

  * ## INEC’s lifeline for prospective voters

  * ## Eid-el-Kabir : Sacrificing personal interest for Nigeria




## Sponsored

  * ## Wife Shares Herbal Remedy for Staphylococcus, Gonorrhea and other Toilet Infections That Have been Kept Hidden for Years\!

A wife has now opened up about her she and her husband were able to finally eliminate staphylococcus aureus from their b...

  * ## This Tiny Pill Cures Bad Eyes Problems… And Has Saved Thousands From Going Blind

  * ## The Impact of Technology Adoption for MSMEs in a Changing Tax policy and Regulatory Environment

  * ## Ulunma Izejiobi Wins 7Up Harvard Business School Scholarship 2018

  * ## HERBAL VIAGRA – New Ways Men Can Get Stronger Erections and Last 25Minutes in Bed Even After 40 Years Old

  * ## SHOCKING\!\!\! As Doctor Revealed New Way Of Curing High Blood Pressure And Hypertension Completely Without Drugs

  * ## Wife Shares Herbal Remedy for Staphylococcus, Gonorrhea and other Toilet Infections That Have been Kept Hidden for Years\!




## Cartoons

  * ## Cartoon: Mr & Mrs

Related




## Most Commented

  * Don't stretch the People's Anger beyond Endurance Limit, Ohanaeze warns FG174
  * Igbo governors proscribed IPOB first, not Aso Rock - IPOB77
  * Am not losing sleep over APC's plot to impeach me- Saraki94
  * Frank hails US for exposing “lies of APC government”172
  * Yes, Ironsi toppled young Majors79
  * Why white women are s3xually attracted by black men; black women by white men220



## Ad by INDIGEN

## Trending

  * ## Photos: Jubilation as 127 Pro Biafra women regain freedom

Pro-Biafra supporters at the premises of Owerri magistrate court jubilating as 127 Pro Biafra women remanded in Owerri p...

  * ## Breaking: Kingsley Moghalu stages protest over incarceration of Biafra women

  * ## South-East, just like other geo-political zones, got N16.6bn worth of projects – Lai Mohammed

  * ## We’ve done far more than previous govt — Osinbajo

  * ## Global community backs Buhari’s 2nd term bid – Foreign minister

  * ## Is Miyetti Allah now ruling Nigeria? – Benue govt

  * ## Reactions trail alleged threat by Miyetti Allah to force Saraki out of office if…

  * ## Operation Python Dance 3: Deploy Army to farms, construction sites, Ohanaeze tells FG

  * ## Kwankwaso urges PDP to pick presidential candidate from North West

  * ## FG has failed our zone in projects — S-East govs




## Videos

## I want you to be as ruthless as humanly possible, Nigerians deserve some peace – Buhari

## Get your PVC – 2017 BigBrother housemate, Soma

## Video: Watch Tanzanian President, John Magufuli take public flight; can yours do it?

## Video: Buhari treks 800meters to his house

##  Allure Latest posts

  * Fans accuse Toke Makinwa of plastic surgery to widen her hips \(Photos\)
  * How To Overcome Infertility — Laurie Idahosa
  * Allure Fashion: Visors are back\!
  * Allure Tips: How to get the right office look with ease
  * BBNaija star, Uriel Oputa to host Cooking Show



## Nigerian Stock Exchange

  * ## Bargain hunters push stock market up by 1.57%

The bulls resurfaced in the Nigerian equity market on Thursday, with the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE All Share Index, A...

  * ## RAK Unity Petroleum shareholders okay 10k dividend

  * ## NSE: Bears dominate as stock market hits 52 weeks low




## E-editions

CLICK VIEW TO THE NEWSPAPER ARCHIVES

## Onochie Anibeze

  * ## Did I betray Richard Akinnola?

Chris Okojie had just returned from Enugu where he went to cover a league match.

Read More




## Oil & Gas Summiteer

  * ## American oil swings and emerging markets

We are back to oil volatility with its conflicting signals on global markets. Countries policies greatly affect the dema...

Read More




## Back to the matter

  * ## 2019: Why opposition is silenced and clueless

While the deepening state of confusion in the country continues to drive more and more unrest in every geopolitical zone...

Read More




## My World

  * ## The herdsmen/farmers’ clashes can be contained— Ogbeh

The image of the herdsmen that I grew up with is not the image kids of today have. Today’s herdsmen carry AK47. They kil...

Read More




## Frank & Fair

  * ## Igbo and the 2023 Presidency

The civil war left many chronic wounds. But Igbos have survived and thrived. Igbos may have been hampered by national...

Read More




## Marriage and Family

  * ## The changing face of parenting

In those days, children were told all kinds of stories to keep them in line. If a parent sent a child on an errand, she...




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance and You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall



## Life Style

  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is It Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



## Columns

  * Monday
    * Sport Bassey
    * People And Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Sobowale on Business
    * Broken Links
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Tuesday
    * Femi Aribisala
    * Dispatches from America



  * Wednesday
    * Talking Point
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * Tip of a New Dawn
  * Thursday
    * People Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub



  * Friday
    * Sweet Sour
    * Lipstick
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Saturday
    * The Passing Scene
    * My World
    * Frank & Fair
    * Marriage & Family
    * Oil & Gas Summiteer
    * Bits & Pieces



  * Sunday
    * Frankly Speaking
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Nigeria Today
    * The Orbit
    * Outside Looking In
    * Joyful Homes
    * Article of Faith



* * *

© 2018 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us


