Army moves against terrorism in Lagos

Our Reporter February 7, 2014 1 Comment »

BY PHILIP NWOSU

The Nigerian Army said it would put measures on ground to boost its capacity to handle insurgency in Nigeria especially within Lagos and Ogun states.

The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Obi Umahi, made the disclosure yesterday at the commissioning of the 65 Battalion Alfa and Bravo Company Offices.

The building, which was sponsored by Lieutenant General TY Danjuma, was constructed under the leadership of the Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Colonel Haruna Dasuki.

Umahi said: “In the army, when we plan for operations or even when we take our threat analysis, we assume the worse case scenario in our plans and we plan from that point of strength.

“We come up with contingencies to deal with the worst situations and if the situation is lighter, it makes it easier for us in terms of executing it. So, we are prepared for any manner of scenario and we are dressing up for it. All these while, it was not as if we were naive that a spread might occur but through the operations we have on, we believe that the situation is getting better especially in the northern flank.”

The GOC said notwithstanding the upper hand by the military, they would not lower their guards, adding that if anything happens anywhere in the country, they would be proactive enough to tackle it.

While admitting knowledge of the rumour making the rounds on recent plans by the Boko Haram sect to attack military formations, he said the services were in top gear to counter such attacks. He said: “We are aware of the rumor of an attack making the rounds but nothing concrete yet to substantiate it.

“But the information available either at a rumour or intelligence level, would not be wished away, rather, we would factor it in our contingency plan.

“We don’t arrest for the fun of it, rather, because we have concrete evidence that there is a link between the suspects and terrorism. We have not made any arrests recently but if we see the need to make any arrest, we would do so.”

While commending Gen Danjuma, he said the transformation agenda in the army is not talk-chop rather action backed by action, adding that anyone that has not imbibed the attitudinal change has not keyed into the agenda.

 

The Co, Lt. Dasuki while speaking to journalists, said Gen Danjuma bought into the idea because the unit was not empowered financially to take up such a huge project.
