Army, Navy Redeploy Senior Officers

13 Feb 2014

Views: 3,775

Font Size: a / A

 Lt. Gen. Kenneth Minimah

By Senator Iroegbu 

The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Kenneth Minimah, in his first major decision since assumption of office, has approved the redeployment, postings and appointments of more than 107 senior officers most of whom were recently promoted to fill the vacuum created by the retired officers in the service.

Also, the new Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Usman Jibrin, has approved the redeployment of 75 senior officers to man various commands and staff appointments.

The new Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen Olajide Laleye, at his maiden press briefing to inform members of the public about major activities within the Nigerian Army in the period under review, disclosed that the changes affected 36 Major-Generals among who are six new General Officers Commanding (GOCs), 52 Brigadier-Generals, and 19 Colonels.
He emphasised that such postings in the army were a routine exercise that is carried out from time to time to fill the existing vacancies emanating from promotion and retirement, especially with the appointment of Minimah as the new COAS.

He however warned the media and members of the public to stop heating up the polity by scrutinising the administrative decisions of the military and giving such postings and appointments ethno-religious interpretations.
He said: "Insinuations and interpretations of a purely professional, unbiased and thoroughly thought out process should not be trivialised by undue and unfounded speculations.
“Furthermore, due to the sensitive nature of postings and appointments of senior officers, it is desirable that the press refrain from releasing it (without permission) on the print and electronic media".

Laleye also assured the public that the army in collaboration with other security agencies was continuing with its counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations against the outlawed Boko Haram Islamic Sect.
Laleye listed the new GOCs to include Maj-Gen. KC Osuji who is now the GOC, 1 Division, Kaduna; Maj-Gen. E.F. Abejerin  GOC, 2 Division, Ibadan; Maj-Gen. John Zaruwa, 3 Division, Jos; and Maj-Gen. T.I. Debi, 81 Division, Lagos; while Maj-Gen S. Yusuf, takes over at the 82 Division, Enugu.

Others are Maj-Gen. Unsaid Bindawa who retains his GOC position at the 7 Division, Maiduguri, while Maj-Gen. P.A.T. Akem was appointed as the Army Provost Marshal in place of Maj-Gen Ralph Isa who moved to the Ministry of Defence.
The changes also affected Maj-Gen. A.B. Awala, who swapped his post as Army Secretary to now the Chief of Training and Operations, Defence Headquarters (DHQ); and Maj-Gen J.A.H. Ewansiha, former Chief of Army Standard and Evaluation, is now the Chief of Training and Operations, Army; while Maj-Gen I.I. Abbah was appointed as Military Secretary, Army.

Other major postings includes the former Commander, Guards Brigade, Maj-Gen Emmanuel Atewe, who is now Commander Joint Task Force, (Operation PULO SHIELD), while Brig-Gen. A.B. Omozeje takes his former position as  the new Commander, Guards Brigade.
Meanwhile, the Director of Information, Commodore Kabiru Aliyu, while  announcing the redeployments within the Navy, Defence Headquarters and Tri-Service institutions, listed the exercise to involve 29 Rear Admirals, 28 Commodores and 18 Captains.

They include Rear Admiral EO Ogbor, formerly Chief of Policy and Plans Naval Headquarters, now the Chief of Administration Defence Headquarters; Rear Admiral SA Akinwale, Director of Logistics at the Defence Headquarters, now the new Director Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, Rear Admiral AOA Ikioda, Chief of Policy and Plans, Rear Admiral IE Ibas, Chief of Logistics and Rear Admiral IA Oyagha, Chief of Training and Operations, all at the Naval Headquarters.

Others are Rear Admiral SH Usman who moved from Central  Naval Command to the Logistics Command as Flag Officer Commanding; while Rear Admiral PA Agba is now the new Flag Officer Commanding Central Naval Command, Yenagoa and Rear Admiral OC Medani is the new Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command, Calabar. Other senior officers redeployed include Rear Admiral IA Ajuonu, Group Managing Director /CEO Navy Holdings Limited, Rear Admiral OE Ekwe, Admiral Superintendent Naval Dockyard Limited, Rear Admiral DO Osuofa, Navy Secretary while Rear Admiral AB Afolayan resumes as Director of Medical Services.
Also Rear Admiral OP Ozojiofor is the Director of Training at the Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral A Shettima is the Managing Director, Naval Hotels and Suites Limited.

Other Rear Admirals affected by the redeployment include Rear Admiral OU Emele as Director of Logistics, Defence Headquarters, Rear Admiral A Johnson Commander Fleet Support Group (West), Rear Admiral LON Iwuoha, Admiral Superintendent, Naval Doctrine and Assessment Centre and Rear Admiral HO Ngonadi, Director of Development at the Defence Headquarters, Surgeon Rear Admiral TGS Epelle, Director Medical (Admin/Logistics) Defence Headquarters, Rear Admiral EG Ofik, Chief Staff Officer, Western Naval Command and Rear Admiral SE Ogoigbe, Deputy Commandant, Armed Forces Command and Staff College Jaji.
