Army is combat-ready for terrorists – COAS

On May 27, 2012 · In News

7:21 pm

Tweet

Kaduna – The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika, says the army is combat-ready to deal with terrorists in the country.

Ihejirika said this at the graduation of the 3rd Batch of Special Force troops at the Counter Terrorism and Insurgency Centre in Kachia, Kaduna State on Sunday.

Commander, Guards Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Emmanuel Atewe, congratulating best graduating gtudent (Army), Private Sade Adeyemi (L), while Director, Counter Terrorism Centre, Brig.-Gen. Tijani Golau, applauds during thegraduation ceremony of Counter Terrorism Course 3 in Kachia, Kaduna State . NAN Photo

The Special Forces were trained on counter terrorism and counter insurgency.

Represented by the Commander Brigade of Guards, Brig.-Gen. Emmanuel Atewe, the COAS said a lot was expected of the troops in areas of their deployment.

He said that special troop had been sufficiently trained, transformed and equipped with the necessary skills to tackle the various security challenges facing the country.

The COAS appealed to them to exhibit a high sense of professionalism and dedication in the conduct of their assignments by adhering strictly to the rules of the task.

Ihejirika also urged the troops to channel their energy toward addressing the nation’s security challenges to alleviate the sufferings of innocent and law-abiding citizens bearing the brunt of terrorists’ attacks.

Earlier, the Director of the Centre, Brig.-Gen. Tijjani Golau, said that no fewer than 298 soldiers participated in the four-week programme.

Golau said that of the figure, 200, known as defenders, went through Basic Special Forces training.

He added that the training covered fighting in built up areas, VIP protection, search and rescue operations, tactical combat shooting, weapon handling, unarmed combat, tactics, physical fitness and others.

Golan expressed confidence in the ability of the participants to give good account of themselves when deployed for the task ahead.

The Commandant-General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Dr Olu Abolurin, said the training would strengthen the synergy and co-operation amongst security agencies to contain the nation’s security problems.

He was represented by Mr Suleiman Akanbi, the Deputy Commandant-General (Administration) of the organisation.

Highlights at the occasion were; demonstration of tactical combat shooting, tactics, weapon handling, and rescue operations, among others by the Special Forces.

62 soldiers repatriated from Sudan for indiscipline, says GOC 1 Div.

Maj.-Gen. Garba Wahab, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 1 Division, Nigerian Army, Kaduna, also said that 62 soldiers were repatriated from the mission in Sudan for acts of indiscipline.

Wahab made the remarks at the graduation ceremony of 26 Battalion pre-deployment training course 1 at the Nigerian Army Peacekeeping Centre, Jaji, near Kaduna on Sunday.

He warned troops of the 26 Battalion against similar acts, adding that the army would not accept a repeat of such acts in mission assignments.

The GOC also urged them to remain focused and highly professional in the discharge of their duties.

He said, “The Nigerian Army will not accept any situation, where its troops are disarmed; hence, the need for effective leadership at all levels.”

The GOC said that those repatriated were being investigated to ascertain their culpability in the acts and would be punished if found wanting in the discharge of their duty, while in the mission area.

Wahab said, “You must be resolute in dealing with operational matters, while ensuring compliance with UNAMID’s rules of engagement and force protection measures.

“Your success in the mission area will justify resources and time spent on your training.

“It is important to remind you of the unpredictable situation in Sudan due to the complexity in the conflict environment and dynamics.”

Earlier, the Commandant of the Centre, Maj.-Gen. J.S Zaruwa, said that the troops had received “appreciable level of training to ensure effective performance in peace support operations”. (NAN)
