GOC to soldiers: Shoot Ondo poll troublemakers

87

By Our Reporter on October 19, 2012 National

From TUNDE RAHEEM, Akure

The General Officer Commanding 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Major Gen. Mohammed Abubakar, yesterday ordered the soldiers to shoot any troublemaker who resists arrest in tomorrow’s governorship election in Ondo State.

The GOC warned anybody who might want to foment trouble during the election to think twice, adding that the soldiers would not condone any act of hooliganism during and after the election.

The army boss, who arrived the 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure yesterday to address the men and officers to be deployed for the poll, said nobody would be allowed to carry arms to the polling station, while directing them to arrest anybody who violated the order.

Abubakar said: “No movement on that day, except for those on essential duties and those on election duty.

“No hunting on the election day. I am happy that the IGP has said that there would be no fishing during the poll.

“I don’t want to hear that I am going to the bush to hunt.

“Anybody with arm must be arrested.

“If he resists arrest, shoot him, I give you the order.”

Abubakar said movement would be restricted from 6am to pm, but he explained that motorists traveling across the state to other parts of the country would be allowed passage, after they must have proved that they are not going into the state.

The GOC said he had received a petition from a political party he declined to mention that one of the contestants had bribed some soldiers to allow his party to rig during the election.

Abubakar said he was not a party to that, while warning any soldier who is a member of any political party to say it.

He stated that any soldier found colluding with any party would be severely dealt with.

He said: “No amount of money they promise you will turn you to Abiola or Dangote.

“These people worked for their money. So be satisfied with what the Nigerian Army is giving you.”

He said there would be dress code for the troops, adding it would be easy for real soldiers to identify fake ones.

The GOC declined to give the number of soldiers deployed to monitor the election, but said soldiers were moved to Ondo State from different formations to maintain law and order during the election.
