Military recounts troop’s success in Adamawa

Posted by: Agency Reporter in News Update March 10, 2015

Major General Fatai Alli, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, on Tuesday reiterated the successes recorded by troops in the fight against insurgents in far North eastern state of Adamawa.

Alli said troops have recaptured almost all towns in Adamawa earlier held by insurgents except Madagali, headquarters of Madagali Local Government.

The Major General disclosed this when some newsmen were taken on a guided tour of liberated towns in Hong, Mubi and Michika Local Government Areas of the state.

Maj.-Gen. Chris Ogunkolade, the Director, Defence Information, who led the tour, said it was to give the journalists the opportunity to see the situation on ground.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), some of the recaptured towns include Hong, Kaala, Makera, Mararraba Mubi, Maiha, Mubi North, Mubi South, Uba, Kudzum, Bazza, Michika and Shuwa.

The GOC said operations to recapture Madagali were ongoing, and vowed that all territories held by the terrorists would be liberated soon.

Alli attributed the successes recorded by troops in the war against the insurgents to recent acquisition of weapons, better coordination, motivation and training of personnel.

“Boko Haram has been substantially degraded, the flow of arms and ammunition to them has reduced drastically, their financial support has been blocked by financial measures adopted by the international community,” he said.

Similarly, Brig-Gen Victor Ezeugwu, the Commanding Officer, 28 Task Force Brigade, Hong, described the recapture of Mararraba and Mubi as a ‘watershed’ in the fight against Boko Haram in Adamawa.

Ezeugwu further added that the town was a strategic supply route for the insurgents.

He said the brigade had also captured over 100 insurgents and handed them over to relevant security agencies for further investigation.

Among the three towns reportedly visited, Michika was the most hit by the terrorists, as most structures in the town had been destroyed.

Some of the structures destroyed included the Divisional Police Office, Local Government secretariat, Emir’s palace, Mosques, Churches, banks, market and the general hospital.

It was reliably gathered that the insurgents destroyed the structures while fleeing the onslaught by the military to recapture the town.

It was also reported that residents of the affected areas had not returned as at the time of the visit.

Meanwhile, the Emir of Mubi, Alhaji Abubakar Ahmadu, has restated his call on his subjects to return, saying that the area had been secured by the military.

Ahmadu told the visiting journalists that at his palace that it was important for the residents to return so as to help in the rebuilding process.

“I will plead with the people of Mubi to come home so that we develop Mubi.

“Mubi is now in peace, so everybody should come; I have come back to Mubi, I am not going anywhere except on official assignment,” he said.
