Why insecurity is escalating – Buratai


The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai on Saturday blamed the security challenges confronting Nigeria on poor upbringing of the children.

General Buratai stated this at the Passing Out Parade \(POP\) of the Nigerian Military School \(NMS\) boys, in Zaria, Kaduna State on Saturday.

They Chief of Army Staff who was represented by the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\), 1 Mechanised Division of the Nigerian Army, Kaduna, Maj-Gen. Adeniyi Oyebade however said that, all hands must be on deck to ensure proper training and upbringing of Nigerian children, believing that such will reduce to the barest minimal, security threats against the country.

According to him, “The escalating level of insecurity in the country has much to do with the level of training our children are exposed to from the beginning.

“Having an institution that will ensure that children are inculcated with a high level of discipline, knowledge and patriotism is what all stakeholders in the Nigerian project should encourage,” he pleaded.

Buratai assured that the Army on its part would continue to ensure that all training schools in the Nigerian Army were provided with the basic facilities towards excellence and proficiency.

The Army Boss said he had given directive that deliberate efforts be taken for the purpose of repositioning all Command Schools in line with standards established by NMS.

He recalled that the NMS was established 63 years ago to provide middle level manpower that would take over for the departing British non-commission officers at independence.

“The school had undoubtedly produced seasoned military officers of repute and highly experienced technocrats that are contributing positively to the development of Nigeria.

“It was in recognition of the contribution of the ex-boys to national development and upholding the dream and vision of the founding fathers of the school that I directed the resumption of military training suspended in the school in 2011.

“I am delighted that the Commandant and his team had worked assiduously to ensure that the passing out boys were given the requisite training to serve their fatherland,” he noted.

While urging the graduating boys to be good ambassadors of the school and the Nigerian Army, Buratai charged them to always exhibit high sense of discipline, commitment and patriotism wherever they go.

Highlight of the occasion was the awards and cash gift of N250, 000 to each of the four award-winners who distinguished themselves during 2016/2017 academic session.
