# Troops clear Boko Haram in Doksa, Dure

By Ronald Mutum | Publish Date: Mar 6 2016 4:12PM

  *   *   *   *   *   *   \(0 Likes\)



The Nigerian Army has said troops fighting insurgency in the North East succeeded in clearing remnants of Boko Haram hiding in Doksa, in Biu local government and Dure district in Borno State.

A statement issued on Sunday by Army spokesman Colonel Sani Usman said  troops of 231 and 331 Battalion together with some elements of Armed Forces Special Forces of 3 Division based on received information cleared remnants of Boko Haram terrorists hiding in Doksa general area.

Colonel Usman added that during the clearance, the troops killed 2 Boko Haram terrorists and recovered military uniforms, 1 General Purpose Machine Gun, 1 AK-47 rifle and 2 Dane Guns. 

He said they also captured one Boko Haram terrorist alive, who gave his name as Musa Abdullahi.

Usman stated that the troops encountered 2 Improvised Explosive Devices buried along their route of advance which they successfully detonated.

“They also recovered 2 pickup vans, 25 motorcycles, 30 bicycles and grinding machines, as well as large quantity of foodstuffs,” he added. 

Usman explained that apart from burying Improvised Explosive Devices, the terrorists often contaminate sources of water in the area.

He also stated that on Saturday, soldiers of 121 Task Force Battalion, 26 Task Force Brigade carried out a clearance operations at Dure district.    


Usman added that despite stiff resistance from terrorist’s troops, they cleared Dure 1, Dure 2 and Jango, Dibiye and other suspected Boko Haram terrorists hideouts within the general area of the district. 

He said three soldiers sustained injuries as a result of an Improvised Explosive Device \(IED\), noting that they were immediately evacuated for medical treatment and are in a stable condition. 

Usman explained that: “During the operation, troops killed several terrorists and recovered 2 hand held Motorola radios one of which was booby-trapped, materials for Improvised Explosive making Devices and destroyed several grains storage facilities.” 

He added that another combined team of units under 26 Task Force Brigade based in Gwoza same day cleared Amdaga Makaranta and Amdaga Madachi of remnants of Boko Haram terrorists. During the encounter  two Boko  Haram terrorists fighters were killed. 

Usman said the General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Brigadier  General Victor Okwudili Ezugwu noted that prior to the clearance operation, Dure 1 and 2 were Boko Haram strong holds in the mainland of Sambisa forest.

He stated that: “The operation further revealed  the new and desperate strategy of Boko Haram terrorists; hiding their logistics especially grains for the rainy season in dugouts and the use of hand held radios primed with Improvised Explosive Devices as booby-traps.”
