# LT GEN OA IHEJIRIKA CFR Gss Psc\(+\)fwc fniqs \{COAS 2010 -2013\}


Lieutenant General Onyeabo Azubike Ihejirika was born in Ovim in Isuikwato Local Government Area of Abia State on 13 February, 1956. He is a member of the 18th Regular Combatant Course Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna and was commissioned 2Lt on 17 December 1977 into the Corps of Nigerian Army Engineers \(NAE\). General Ihejirika attended several military and civil courses both home and abroad and excelled in all the courses and won various awards at Junior Staff Course in Ghana, Military Engineering School, Senior Command and Staff College and the National War College. He holds a BSc \(Hons\) in Quantity Survey from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Lieutenant General Ihejirika has held many appointments on the staff, instruction and command categories, amongst which were Directing Staff at the Command and Staff College, and Principal Staff Officer at the Defence and Army Headquarters. He also held various command appointments and performed creditably, earning the Chief of Army Staff’s commendation award for excellence during his tour of duty as the Commander 41 Division Engineers and Acting General Officer Commanding 1 Division. He later commanded the 81 Division in Lagos. General Ihejirika was appointed to his current position as Chief of Army Staff on 8 September 2010. Lieutenant General Ihejirika has earned several honours and awards which include; Forces Service Star \(FSS\), Meritorious Service Staff \(MSS\), Distinguished Service Star \(DSS\), Grand Service Star \(GSS\), Passed Staff College Dagger \(psc\(+\)\), Fellow National War College \(fwc\). He is also a Fellow of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors \(fniqs\). He is happily married and blessed with children. 

## NIGERIAN ARMY CHRONICLE OF COMMAND

  * ##### MAJ GEN CB WELBY- EVERALD

  * ##### MAJ GEN JTU AGUIYI-IRONSI

  * ##### GEN Y GOWON

  * ##### COL IRI AKANHAN

  * ##### Maj Gen HU KATSINA

  * ##### Maj Gen Ejoor

  * ##### LT GEN TY DANJUMA

  * ##### LT GEN IA AKINRINADE

  * ##### LT GEN GS JALLO

  * ##### LT GEN MI WUSHISHI

  * ##### MAJ GEN IBRAHIM BABANGIDA

  * ##### LATE GEN S ABACHA

  * ##### Lt Gen MOHAMMED

  * ##### MAJ GEN MC ALLI

  * ##### Maj Gen Kazir 

  * ##### Lt Gen Ogomudia

  * ##### Lt Gen OA Azazi

  * ##### Lt Gen LN Yusuf

  * ##### Lt Gen AB Dambazau

  * ##### Lt Gen OA Ihejirika 




### Nigerian Army History

The history of the Nigerian Army dates to 1863, when Lt Glover of the Royal Navy selected 18 indigenes from the Northern part of the country and organized them into a local force, known as the "Glover Hausas". Readmore.
