# Army explains role of new Division in Niger Delta

Published on November 19, 2016 by pmnews   ·   No Comments

Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai

The Nigerian Army said its newly-created 6 Division in Port Harcourt was established to organise and improve its internal security operations in four states of the Niger Delta.

Maj.-Gen. Kasimu Abdulkarim, the pioneer General Officer Commanding \(GOC\), of the Division, disclosed this to newsmen on Saturday in Port Harcourt.

Abdulkarim said the military had recorded success in the war against terror and was committed to combating emerging security threats in the Niger Delta and other parts of the country.

According to him, the Division will cover army 2 Brigade Akwa Ibom; 16 Brigade Bayelsa and 63 Brigade in Delta, respectively, with divisional headquarters in Port Harcourt.

“This arrangement will help to curtail activities of militants, banditry, inter-communal clashes, illegal bunkering, kidnapping, robberies, Niger Delta Avengers and pipeline vandalism prevalent in the area.

“Insecurity in these states negatively impacts on our national economy resulting from sabotage by criminal entities within the region.

“Everything must be done to protect and defend our fledgling democracy with focus to prevent insecurity in the area of our responsibility,” he said.

Abdulkarim said his mission was to structure and enhance the operational capability of the division and improve combat readiness of the troops.

He said the task included a review of existing intelligence architecture; accountability; inclusiveness; rule of law; troops discipline and respect for human rights.

The GOC said the division would work with the media and the public to promote civil-military relations with focus on improving intelligence gathering.

“Officers and soldiers of 6 Division must collectively evolve media management skills in the exploit of mass and social media’s growing power instead of fighting it.

“Our personnel must be honest, trustworthy and professional in their conduct to earn public confidence in our internal security operations,” he said.

He urged governments and communities in the four states to cooperate with the division to enable it to achieve its mandate to improve security in the region.
