# GOC 82 Div. solicits cooperation of security agencies

On October 28, 20168:49 pmIn News by OkogbaComments

Chimaobi Nwaiwu, Nnewi.

The General Officer Commanding, 82 Division of Nigerian Army Enugu, Maj.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru has called on security agencies in the country to cooperate with each other to effectively combat the myriads of security challenges facing Nigeria.

Maj.-Gen Attahiru said this in his opening speech during a training organized by the Army Headquarters for 44 Division Engineers Officers and Senior Non-Commissioned Officers held at 302 Artillary Regiment, \(General Support\) Onitsha, Anambra State.

“There is need for synergy among security agencies to effectively combat the myriad of security challenges facing the country, such synergy will encourage innovations in tackling the challenges of asymmetric warfare engaged by militants, insurgents, armed robbers and kidnappers.”

Maj. Gen. Attahiru who was represented by Brig.-Gen Olufemi Akinjobi at the training which has its theme as “Enhancing Capacity for Asymmetric Warfare” explained that “the training would rejuvenate personnel professional standards to confront contemporary security challenges of asymmetric warfare.”

“Similar training had resulted in the optimal performance of the “Dragon Engineers” during the Exercise Crocodile Smile recently, and other similar operations in the country.”

The Deputy Chief of Staff, Training and Operations, 82 Division of the Nigeria Army, Col. Chris Ataki, in a lecture entitled “Asymmetric Warfare in Nigeria: Challenges and way forward” said that the Nigeria Army still faced some asymmetric warfare challenges.

Col. Ataki, listed the challenges as lack of clear policy on boarder security and poor standard of training, manpower constraints, inadequate plants and equipment, inadequate capacity, weak research and development base and inadequate intelligence.

He however, suggested the formulation of policy on boarder security by the Ministry of Defense and other security agencies to mitigate the challenges of porous border security.

“There must also be available incentives for researchers to improve on research and development, just as there is need for improved training for troops on best global practices on countering asymmetric warfare, also improved fund for the Nigeria Army necessary.

“We also advocate for improved technology for the army especially in the use of drones, access control, hacking and use of robots to dismantle Improvised Explosive Devices, IED’s, these will not only build the confidence of the soldiers but give the confidence that they can defeat insurgents and terrorists.”

The Anambra State Director of Department of State Services, DSS, Mr. Yusuf Isyaku, who was represented by Mrs Chioma Anyanwu, said insufficient funding for conduct of intelligence operations was a major challenge of the agency.

“Other challenges include under-assessment of situation/security problem and over-assessment caused by exaggerated information, deception and lack of skill by assessors, he delivered a lecture entitled “Asymmetric Warfare: Intelligence as a Critical Operation Enabler”.

Earlier, in a welcome address, the Commander 44 Division Engineers, Enugu, Brig.-Gen. Philip Eromosele, expressed confidence that the training would enhance personnel’s understanding of asymmetric warfare and response to disaster management.
