#### ‘We Arrested Many Boko Haram Suspects In Lagos’

George Okojie

— Aug 11, 2015 6:28 am | Leave a comment

The Former General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 81 Division, Major-Gen. Tanmi Dibi yesterday made a stunning revelation that many Boko Haram suspects were arrested in Lagos in the last 18 months.

Dibi revealed this to journalists shortly, after officially handing over to the incumbent GOC, Major-Gen. Isibor Edet, saying the military serving in the state must be vigilant to prevent insurgency in the state.

Though he didn’t give details of their arrest for security reasons he warned the division’s personnel to remember that they are actively involved in the war against the insurgents.

“Military job is a challenging task and Lagos State itself is a peculiar state. We have had our challenging times but we were able to overcome them.

“Under my watch, we were able to prevent the incursion of Boko Haram insurgents into Lagos. A good number of them were arrested here in Lagos. Having served for 35 years and retiring now, I expect to see a more disciplined and committed army,” he said.

Dibi who retired from service this week urged the personnel of the division both at the headquarters and the 65 Battalion parade ground to be committed to their duties.

According to him, although the division has been able to contain the excesses of the insurgents in its area of responsibility, army personnel must not relax in ensuring the area remains safe.

Dibi said, “You are all aware of the challenges we are going through- the problem of Boko Haram. The fact that you are not in the northeast does not mean you are not fighting the war.

“We are all involved in the war because wars of this nature do not have a front or a rear. So far, we are winning the war and I want you to do more.

“And so far so good, we have been able to contain their excesses and I want you to do more. We have talked enough about security measures put in place, about your own personal security and that of your families and that of the barracks and how you relate with your friends but I urge you to do more.

“Be more vigilant and ensure security of your environment, your Barracks. I do not want to be in my village to hear about any careless death.‎ I do not want to read about an attack in Lagos.

“I want to hear that this division I am leaving is the most efficient division in the Nigeria army. I give God the glory for making it possible to serve Nigeria for 35 years and retiring today. I also thank all of you for supporting me. Some of you have done so well by co-operating, some of you lagged behind.

“For those lagging behind, please change your attitude towards work, be more dedicated because you do not have any other job than this job, neither do you have any other army.

“The army is a voluntary organization which you decided to join, nobody forced you to join, therefore, do not allow any to force you do your job.

“If you do your job, you are not doing anyone any favour. It is your job and you should do it well,” he said.

Expressing confidence in his successor, Major-Gen. Isibor Edet he said the officer is as an embodiment of knowledge, intelligence and discipline.

He charged the personnel to accord him all loyalty‎ and respect so that the division can live above board in its responsibilties.
