# Nigeria: Insurgents Seize Gulak Village





In their latest bid to capture more territories, the dreaded Boko Haram insurgents yesterday launched vicious attacks on various military formations in Gulak the headquarters of Madagali local government of Adamawa State.

The latest attack is coming only few days after the insurgents took over Madagali, also in Adamawa and Bama, Borno State's second-largest city, after declaring an Islamic Caliphate in Gwoza, also in Borno.

This is even as it was learnt that soldiers had regrouped in Gulak where a strategy for the recapture of Madagali from the grip of the insurgents was being planned, before the latest attack.

Sources within the town said troops from Task Force Mike, drawn from the Special Operation Battalion and the 3rd Division of the Nigerian Army, Jos, deserted Gulak after the militants overran the town and retreated to Mubi, Adamawa State.

Sources in Madagali told LEADERSHIP Weekend that after invading the city, insurgents told the people not to panic or run because they are not after them but soldiers drafted to secure the area.

Despite assurances by the insurgents, some of the residents were said to have fled for the fear that after subduing the soldiers, the insurgents will turn their barrels on the people.

A resident of the area said the insurgents stormed the area in many Toyota Hilux vans around 5:30pm with sophisticated weapons and headed towards the military checkpoints where a gun duel ensued , following which the soldiers reportedly retreated to Shuwa, probably to get more reinforcement to combat the insurgents.

"At the moment, the insurgents hold sway in the town as the soldiers beat a retreat, and we learnt that they are now in Shuwa," a resident disclosed.

In a related development, military officials are reportedly relocating their families from military barracks in Borno, after insurgents reportedly dropped letters intimating residents of plans to attack the barracks in their bid to take over Maiduguri, the Borno state capital.

Sources told LEADERSHIP Weekend that copies of the letter were dropped at the gates of Giwa and Maimalari military barracks as well as other locations in the state capital.

Chief of Army Staff, Lt General OA Ihejirika

We will defeat Boko Haram terrorists - DHQ

The military authorities yesterday reiterated their commitment to flushing out the Boko Haram terrorists and vowed not to allow any part of the country to be taken away by the outlawed sect.

In a statement issued by the Defence Headquarters and signed by its director of information, Major General Chris Olukolade, he acknowledged the concern of all and sundry over the incessant attacks by the terrorists in the north-east.

"In the light of the current challenges in the counter-terrorism efforts in the north east which has understandably elicited a sense of apprehension among citizens and even foreign allies, the DHQ wishes to reiterate the pledge and commitment it made while briefing the Joint Committee on Defence of the National Assembly to the effect that everything will be done to reverse the situation and defeat the rampaging terrorists.

"While welcoming all the concerns shown by Nigerians and a section of the international community following the increased menace and activities of terrorists, it is necessary to reassure all that the Nigerian armed forces is more than ever determined and committed to the defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Nigeria, regardless of any odd".

The military said it is not only its pride and reputation but that of the entire nation and promised to stop the terror attacks.

"We therefore urge our citizens not to lose hope or be disenchanted but to remain steadfast and supportive of the military as all steps are being taken to ensure the success of the counter-insurgency operations, especially at this crucial time when our sovereignty is being challenged.

"With this in mind, it is important to reiterate that the Nigerian military is fully conscious of its obligations to the Nigerian state and remains willing and ready to perform its duties with utmost diligence. Therefore, what the military requires at this critical period in the nation's history is not pillories but continued support from all stakeholders and comity of nations.

"Indeed, this is not the time to despair or shift blames. Rather it calls for concerted effort by all and sundry to stop the agents of darkness who seek to destroy our country and civilization. On its part, the Nigerian military as a fighting force assures Nigerians once again that this battle will be won."

FG Denies Hiring Australian Negotiator

The federal government has denied it hired an Australian, Dr Stephen Davis, to negotiate with Boko Haram.

This is even as the Department of State Services has condemned allegations that former chief of army staff Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika had a hand in the sponsorship of the dreaded Boko Haram sect, stressing that it would be uncharitable to associate him with the terrorists.
