# Boko Haram: Nigerian Army inducts Combat Motorbike battalion into Battle.

On February 28, 201611:23 amIn News by adekunleComments

By Kingsley Omonobi  
Abuja – As part of renewed strategy to sustain the clearing of the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists, the Nigerian Army has inducted a combat motorbike battalion at the Headquarters of 25 Task Force Brigade, Damboa, Borno State. 

The Battalion took off just as Nigerian troops pursuing the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists in the epicenter of the battle, on Saturday killed 37 of the terrorists in a massive clearance operation while also rescuing 20 hostages from the terrorist’s haven.Army Inducts Combat Motorbike Operation Against Terrorists

During the operation, two Nigerian soldiers sustained gunshot injuries but were evacuated for medical attention.

According to a statement signed by Col. Sani Usman, “The Nigerian Army also launched the second set of 100 wanted suspected Boko Haram terrorists at the occasion. 

The Chief of Army Staff \(COAS\), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai while inducting the unit stated that “the essence of the battalion is to open and secure motorways from various towns to and fro Maiduguri and other parts of Yobe State. 

“Prior to the induction and launching ceremony, the Chief of Army Staff took time off to see and address troops located at Delwa and Bulabulin before arriving Damboa. On arrival, he inspected a Quarter guard at the Brigade’s headquarters. 

“Thereafter, he was briefed by the Brigade Commander, Brigadier General Lawrence Adeleke Araba and then showed him some weapons, vehicles and Improvised Explosive Devices \(IEDs\) making machines and equipment the formation recovered when they cleared Boko Haram terrorists camps at Talala and Ajingin recently. 

Earlier, the Commander, 7 Division Garrison, Colonel Solomon Babatunde Kumapayi also showed the COAS vehicles, weapons and Improvised Explosives Making Devices \(IEDs\) his formation recovered from the terrorists at Kotokuma on Friday. 

Inducting the combat motorbike unit, the Chief of Army Staff stated that the battalion will serve as a force multiplier in the clearance operations of remnants of Boko Haram terrorists.

He stated further that with the induction of the unit, troop’s presence will be available along the roads thus keeping the roads open and safe. 

A visibly elated Secretary of National Union of Road Transport Workers \(NURTW\), Borno State, Alhaji Ahmadu Musa showered encomiums on the COAS and the Nigerian Army for their sacrifices and the initiative that would enhance safety and security on the roads.

He promised the continuous support of his organization to the Army towards the mopping up of the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists.

He further assured the COAS that they will display and distribute the banner containing the photographs of the wanted suspected Boko Haram terrorists to all their branches and other chapters. 

The COAS also visited 254 Task Force Battalion, Sabon Gari located along Damboa-Biu road where addressed the troops.  
On the killing of 37 terrorists, Usman said, “Today, troops of 7 Division Garrison, 112 Battalion and Army Headquarters Strike Group, recorded tremendous success in a clearance operations against Boko Haram terrorist’s at Kotokuma, Dikwa Local Government Area.

“The troops cleared the terrorist’s camp which was equipped with medical facility, Improvised Explosive Devices \(IEDs\) factory, fuel dump, mechanical workshop, generators and several water points.

“The gallant troops also destroyed 3 vehicles laden with IEDs meant for suicide bombings somewhere and killed 37 Boko Haram terrorists. 

“The troops also recovered 12 vehicles, 27 motorcycles, 9 AK-47 rifles, 2 Fabrique Nationale rifles, fabricated rocket bomb and a Sniper rifle.

“Other items recovered include 4 Dane Guns, solar panels and other household items. In addition to that, they also rescued 20 persons held hostage by the terrorists.

“Unfortunately, 2 of our soldier’s sustained gunshot wounds. The wounded soldiers have been evacuated to 7 Division Hospital where they are receiving medical care.

“We wish to state here that buoyed with this unprecedented success, the troops morale is very high.

“We would like to assure the public that the troops would continue to do their best to clear all the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists wherever they may be to successfully bring to an end the menace of the terrorists.”
