# Boko Haram attacks possible in Ogun – Army chief

on April 04, 2014   /   in News 1:49 am   /   Comments

Tweet

BY DAUD OLATUNJI

ABEOKUTA—The General Officer Commanding, 81 division of Nigerian Army, Lagos, Major-General Tamunomieibi Dibi, yesterday, in Abeokuta, said Boko Haram insurgency and attacks in the state was possible , urging the Army officers, Ogun State Government and the people of the State not to rule it out.

Dibi, the newly-deployed General Officer, who paid a working visit to the 35 Artillery Brigade, Alamala, Abeokuta, however, boasted that the Nigerian Army has what it takes to crush the Boko Haram insurgency and its attacks.

He urged the military men to be security-conscious and report any security-threatening information to the appropriate quarters for quick and necessary actions, noting that security watch and consciousness should be seen as everybody business.

The GOC who declared that the presence of Boko Haram insurgents could not be ruled out in any state, cities, villages and communities in any part of the country, charged army and other security agencies to be watchful and on the alert every time to crush any attacks.

While confirming the welfare and security challenges facing Nigerian Army and its officers, Dibi assured military men that government would look into the challenges and find necessary solutions to the challenges, saying; “I am impressed with the environment I met here, in fact, you are living close to the nature.

I know the problems of Army, your Brigade Commander has equally briefed me about your challenges and they are surmountable. While your officers are working, I want you to encourage them and be by their side; be behind them. If everybody is conscious of his security, it will amount to collective security.

I think you know that there is nothing like rumour in the Army, if you have a rumour don’t keep it to yourselves, pass it to the appropriate quarters for necessary attention and action.”
