## Army Demands Discipline from Civilian JTF

24 Nov 2013

Views: 1,943

Font Size: a / A

 Defence Hqs  
  
Michael Olugbode 

The Nigerian Army yesterday demanded discipline from the youth vigilante group, popularly called Civilian JTF, which has been assisting security agents to smoke out Boko Haram insurgents from Borno State.  
The General Officer Commanding 7 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj, Gen. Obidah Ethan gave this warning while paying a follow-up visit to the training site of the youth.  
It would be recalled that the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika had earlier visited training camp this week during a tour of military formations in Borno State.

Ethan while commending the impressive zeal demonstrated by the youth presently undergoing empowerment training, said he cannot but be satisfied with the training package and conduct of the youths at the training Camp.  
The GOC equally commended the Governor of Borno State, Alhaji Kashim Shettima for the laudable step taking towards giving the youth reorientation through Borno State Youth Empowerment Scheme \(BOYES\) so as to achieve good things in their lives.  
He urged the youth to pay good attention to the training package and lectures which was aimed at changing their mindset for a positive development.  
“The youth have proved to the world that they are formidable partners in the fight against insurgency” he said, adding that: “You have equally proved that you are agents of developmental change in Borno State.”  
He tasked the youth to continue to be disciplined, while acknowledging the efforts of the trainers and resources persons from the military, police, paramilitary organisations and other security agencies in the training camp.  
Over 800 Youths are current undergoing training under Borno State Youth Empowerment Scheme.
