# Lagos, 20 other states get new Police Commissioners

On September 8, 20142:37 pmIn News by adekunleComments

By KINGSLEY OMONOBI-ABUJA

Following recent promotions and retirements in the Nigerian Police force which led to vacancies in position of Command helmsmen, the Acting Inspector General of Police, Suleiman Abba Monday appointed new Commissioners of Police for 21 states of the federation with CP Kayode Aderanti moving to Lagos as the new CP. He takes over from AIG Manko who is now in charge of Zone 2.

CP Usman Baba is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Delta State. He was formerly in charge of Police Cooperative at Force headquarters. CP Dan Bature is the new Commissioner of Police in charge of Rivers State. He takes over from AIG Tunde Ogunsakin. CP Paul Okafor is the Commissioner of Police in charge Kogi State. He was formerly DCP attached to Police Pensions.

CP Wilson Inalegwu is the new FCT Commissioner of Police. He takes over from AIG Joseph Mbu Joseph; CP Hyacinth Dagala is the Commissioner of Police in charge of Benue State. CP Usman Yakubu is Commissioner of Police Nasarawa State. CP Isaac Gabriel Achong is the new Commissioner of Police Akwa Ibom State and CP Idris Farouk Umar is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Jigawa State.

Others are CP Salihu Garba, Commissioner of Police Kwara state, CP A.K. Shodipo, Commissioner of Police Oyo State, CP Abubakar Marafa is Commissioner of Police, Osun State, CP Clement Adoda is moved to Borno state as the Commissioner of Police, CP Karma Hosea Hassan is the new Commissioner of Police, Anambra state. He takes over from AIG Bala Nasarawa who is the AIG in charge Force Intelligence at Force headquarters.

Furthermore CP Titilayo Busari is moved to Cross Rivers State as Commissioner of Police; CP Valentine Ntomchukwu is moved to Bayelsa State as Commissioner of Police. He takes over from Hilary Opara who is now DIG in charge Administration at Force Headquarters. CP Ademola Omole is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Taraba state. CP Olusola Amore, one time Force Public Relations officer at Force headquarters is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Niger state.

CP Gabriel Adejoh Adaji is the new Commissioner of Police Adamawa state. CP Frederick Lakanu is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Ekiti state while CP Ishaku Barau is the new Commissioner of Police in charge Kebbi state.

A statement signed by Acting CP Emmanuel Ojukwu, Force Public Relations Officer noted that the appointments were done in line with the determination and drive of the Inspector General of Police to reposition the Nigeria Police Force for improved service delivery
