Boko Haram: Rogers Nicholas replaces Attahiru as theatre commander

As the Nigerian Army intensifies its campaign against the Boko Haram, it has replaced the theatre commander, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru with Major General Rogers Nicholas.

The latter is the former Commander of the special Security Task Force (operation Safe Haven) in Jos.

The former theatre commander, who was deployed to Army Headquarters, is to now serve as deputy Chief of Policy and Planning.

DAILY POST gathered that the sudden transfer, which has generated argument amongst followers of the ongoing crisis in the northeast was rumoured to have been caused by lack of performance of the former Army General in the theatre of operations.

Military officers, contacted who are not authorised to speak to press, however, said transfer in the military was normal and had nothing to do with performance as being insinuated in some quarters.

Attahiru, who took over from Major General Leo Irabor, the now Force Commander of the Multinational Joint Task Force, was at different times, Director of Administration, Defence Headquarters and General Officer Commanding, GOC, 82 Division, Enugu.

Also media analysts, who view the transfer in the light of his performance in the theatre command told journalists that, his predecessor, Major General Lucky Irabor has left a big shoe that would take an extra effort by any General posted to carry.

A University don, Dr. Mai Jalo Hassan, observed that he has not seen the kind of relationship between the media and the theatre command of operation during General Attahiru’s days as it played out during the era of General Lucky Irabor.

He said, “Perhaps that is why the media is not giving him the much needed cover and to bring his performance to bare if the argument was truly on that he was replaced based on performance.”

He also said he believe the out going General put in his best as far as the crisis in the northeast was concerned, adding that, fighting insurgency “is very difficult and requires patience.”
