Breaking

  * ‘No guyman’ will be Bayelsa governor again –Dickson
  * Eva Presh set to rock music scene
  * Obey, Gbenga Adeyinka for Bishop Samson and wife’s golden jubilee 
  * Sound Sultan, SBS unite for orphans
  * Eva Presh set to rock music scene
  * How I survive scandals – Wande Coal
  * All set for Light Up Concert with Chante Moore
  * Candy Solomon debuts with Africa My Treasure
  * Black Tie Xmas concert parades Olamide, Seyi Shay, Lil Kesh
  * Thugluvin Records ready to drop Swazzi’s Elele



  * RSS
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Google+
  * LinkedIn



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Paper Ad Rate
  * Online Ad Rates
  * Contact Us
  * The Sun National Communications Summit 2015



Navigate

  * National
  * Politics
  * Business
  * Sports
  * Editorial
  * Entertainment
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Columns
    * Broken Tongues
    * Capital Matters
    * Duro Onabule
    * Femi Adesina
    * FrankTalk
    * Funke Egbemode
    * Insights
    * Kalu Leadership Series
    * Offside Musings
    * PressClips
    * Public Sphere
    * Ralph Egbu
    * Sideview
    * The Flipside – Eric Osagie
    * Turf Game
    * Views from Abroad
    * Diabetes Corner



You are at:Home»National»New GOC, others appointed as Army retires 7 generals

#  New GOC, others appointed as Army retires 7 generals 

5

By Our Reporter on  September 4, 2013 National

From MOLLY KILETE, Abuja

A minor shake-up has taken place in the Nigerian Army following the retirement of some senior officers mostly in the ranks of major generals.

Among those retired are the former Chief of Training and Operations \(CTOP\) at the Defence Headquarters \(DHQ\), Major General Lawrence Ngubane, Commander, Training and Doctrine Command \(TRADOC\), Major General Babagana Mungono, Commander, Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Major General Kwaskebe, former Co-ordinator, in-charge of AFISMA, Major General Ugwu and former Commander, Defence Industries Corporation \(DICON\), Major General Maduegbunam.

Consequently, Major General O. T. Etan, former Commander, Army Headquarters Garison \(AHQG\), has been appointed the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) of the newly created 7 Division in Maiduguri, while Major General T. I. Dibi is now the commander, Army Headquarters Garrison.

Major General P. J. Isang is now the Chief of Training and Operations at the DHQ, while Major General J.A.H. Ewansia, former Joint Task Force \(JTF\), Commander in Maiduguri is now the Chief of Standards and Evaluation \(CASE\) at the Army Headquarters, Abuja, Major General Arende is now in charge of DICON, while Major General Abdulkadir is now the commander TRADOC.

 

24 yrs boy started importation with N10,450. Read his story here\!  


Men, forget Viagra. Use these to increase your manhood size & strength

How 2make over N500,000 in less than 12 days like I did

How watermelon made a Benin boy over N1,000,000 in 73days  


Superb premature ejaculation spray. You 'll last 30minutes+  


How to earn 40k-200k monthly from football matches almost on autopilot  


3 Things I did to cure premature ejaculation after my wife left me  


Small manhood and premature ejaculation limited my performance for 4yrs\!

7 Simple yet amazing steps to earn over N200,000/monthly. Click here  


How to get flat belly in just 9 days. Click here\!  


How to turn your Facebook to ATM machine that vomits cash

How 28yrs Lagos boy increased his manhood strength & size in 18days

Click here now if you are interested in earning at least N7,500/daily   


How a young Nigerian generate over N1,000,000/month via digital marketing

Are you a real man? Click here to know if you are?

Get daily updates of jobs in Nigeria. Apply for your dream jobs

Work from home and get paid at least $1000 weekly\!

Get bigger manhood and cure premature ejaculation using these solutions\!

Housewife reveals How to Turn N8,500 into N100,000 monthly\!

Small manhood made me lose my fiancee to a next neighbour

Shocking\! See 1 crazy trick a man uses to last long on his wifey

Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email

### About Author

Our Reporter




### Related Posts

  * November 29, 2015  0

## Audu Abubakar tributes

  * November 29, 2015  0

## Buhari’s six months is of deceitful change–Fayose

  * November 29, 2015  0

## My philanthropy, not motivated by politics –Prince Obi Orizu, Crown Prince of Nnewi Kingdom




###  5 Comments 

  1. Daniel on  September 4, 2013 7:18 am

Two Igbo generals retired none promoted, daz marginalisation\!

Reply 

  2. victor pav on  September 4, 2013 8:03 am

No tiv man nko? whether retired or promoted its a pity this man GEJ hates tiv people

Reply 

  3. efo on  September 4, 2013 9:29 am

This shake up is not minor,it\`s a major one and it\`s lopesided.No single Igbo man promoted after two were retired,nonsense.

Reply 

  4. Owerri on  September 4, 2013 2:23 pm

Clear indication of Awusa marginalisation against Igbos in all spheres of life in this country just to appease the likes of Kwankwaso’s , Nyako’s and Lamido’s.  
We have lost out on two good generals without replacement all sacrificed on the so-called national cohesion. This nonsense should be put to rest because my people have sacrificed a lot on blood letting , job denial , altering of deserved positions , lack of federal presence , this country is owned by Awusa Fulani indeed.  
The little opportunity garnered by the South South out of providence is being challenged vehemently using some stooge in the S.W, S.E and S. South to scuttle only but only ever known opportunity.

Reply 

  5. Sunday Ekoja on  September 6, 2013 10:53 am

It’s a pity that Ndigbo are being marginalized by their own son, Ihejirika and probably a president of southern extraction. My own Idoma people did not benefit anything from the changes.

Reply 




### Leave A Reply Cancel Reply

  * ### Today’s Edition

  *   * ### Recent Posts

    * November 29, 2015  0 ‘No guyman’ will be Bayelsa governor again –Dickson

    * November 29, 2015  0 Eva Presh set to rock music scene

    * November 29, 2015  0 Obey, Gbenga Adeyinka for Bishop Samson and wife’s golden jubilee 

    * November 29, 2015  0 Sound Sultan, SBS unite for orphans

    * November 29, 2015  0 Eva Presh set to rock music scene

    * November 29, 2015  0 How I survive scandals – Wande Coal

    * November 29, 2015  0 All set for Light Up Concert with Chante Moore

    * November 29, 2015  0 Candy Solomon debuts with Africa My Treasure

    * November 29, 2015  0 Black Tie Xmas concert parades Olamide, Seyi Shay, Lil Kesh

    * November 29, 2015  0 Thugluvin Records ready to drop Swazzi’s Elele

  * ### Premium

Claim your Free download of the "Ejaculate By Command" \- the final therapy\!

Breakthrough\! Internet millionaire reveals how he made N5 million in 3 months

5 hot imported products that can make you 300% profit in 60days

Dropout makes over N850,000 legally every month from this info\!

How to trigger and keep full solid erections… without drugs

One way to unblock Fallopian tubes and Shrink Fibroids Naturally

As seen on LIB, How to Turn N8,500 into N100,000 monthly\!

Secure business or student loan worth N500,000. Make cash monthly

  * ### Archives

November 2015 M T W T F S S  
« Oct      
 1  
2345678  
9101112131415  
16171819202122  
23242526272829  
30    
  



Enquiries 

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.  
Call Uche on +234-805-633-4351

Site Design by Zero-One
