  * English
  * En Français



# AllAfrica

  * By AllAfrica
  * myAfrica
  * Travel
  * blogAfrica
  * Sources



# Free Headlines:

  * Email
  * RSS
  * My Account



  * HotNow\!
  * Countries
    * All Countries

AlgeriaAngolaBeninBotswanaBurkina FasoBurundiCameroonCape VerdeCentral African RepublicChadComorosCongo-BrazzavilleCongo-KinshasaCote d'Ivoire

DjiboutiEgyptEquatorial GuineaEritreaEthiopiaGabonGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea BissauKenyaLesothoLiberiaLibya

MadagascarMalawiMaliMauritaniaMauritiusMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNigerNigeriaRwandaSenegalSeychellesSierra Leone

SomaliaSouth AfricaSouth SudanSudanSwazilandSão Tomé and PríncipeTanzaniaTogoTunisiaUgandaWestern SaharaZambiaZimbabwe

    * Africa-Wide
    * Central Africa

AngolaBurundiCameroonCentral African RepublicChadCongo-Brazzaville

Congo-KinshasaEquatorial GuineaGabonRwandaSão Tomé and Príncipe

    * East Africa

BurundiComorosDjiboutiEritreaEthiopiaKenyaMadagascarMauritius

RwandaSeychellesSomaliaSouth SudanSudanTanzaniaUganda

    * North Africa

AlgeriaEgyptLibyaMoroccoTunisiaWestern Sahara

    * Southern Africa

AngolaBotswanaLesothoMalawiMozambique

NamibiaSouth AfricaSwazilandZambiaZimbabwe

    * West Africa

BeninBurkina FasoCameroonCape VerdeCote d'IvoireGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea Bissau

LiberiaMaliMauritaniaNigerNigeriaSenegalSierra LeoneSão Tomé and PríncipeTogo

  * Topics
    * All Topics

AIDSAfrica on the MoveAgribusinessAid and AssistanceArms and ArmiesAsia, Australia, and AfricaAthleticsBankingBook ReviewsBooksBusinessCapital FlowsChildrenClimateCommoditiesCompanyConflictConstructionCorruptionCurrenciesDebtEcotourismEducationEnergyEntertainmentEnvironment

Europe and AfricaExternal RelationsFood and AgricultureGame ParksGovernanceHealthHuman RightsICTInfrastructureInnovationInternational OrganisationsInvestmentLabourLand and Rural IssuesLatin America and AfricaLegal AffairsMalariaManufacturingMediaMiddle East and AfricaMigrationMiningMusicMusic ReviewsNGONutrition

OceansOlympicsPeacekeepingPetroleumPolioPregnancy and ChildbirthPrivatizationRefugeesReligionScienceSoccerSportStock MarketsSustainable DevelopmentTerrorismTradeTransportTravelTuberculosisU.S., Canada and AfricaUrban IssuesWaterWildlifeWomenWorld Cup

    * Entertainment

Book ReviewsBooksMusicMusic Reviews

    * Business

AgribusinessBankingCapital FlowsCommoditiesCompanyConstructionCurrenciesDebtEnergyICTInfrastructureInvestmentLabourManufacturingMiningPetroleumPrivatizationStock MarketsTradeTransport

    * Conflict

Arms and ArmiesPeacekeepingRefugeesTerrorism

    * Environment

ClimateOceansWaterWildlife

    * Health

AIDSMalariaNutritionPolioPregnancy and ChildbirthTuberculosis

    * Sport

AthleticsOlympicsSoccerWorld Cup

    * Travel

EcotourismGame Parks

  * Development
    * Aid and Assistance
    * Education
    * Environment
    * Food and Agriculture
    * Health
    * Women
  * BizTech
    * BizTech Home
    * Agribusiness
    * Banking
    * Capital Flows
    * Commodities
    * Company
    * Construction
    * Currencies
    * Debt
    * Energy
    * ICT
    * Infrastructure
    * Investment
    * Labour
    * Manufacturing
    * Mining
    * Petroleum
    * Privatization
    * Stock Markets
    * Trade
    * Transport
  * Entertainment
    * Book Reviews
    * Books
    * Music
    * Music Reviews
  * Sport
    * Athletics
    * Olympics
    * Soccer
    * World Cup
  * Africa/World
    * Asia, Australia, and Africa
    * Europe and Africa
    * International Organisations
    * Latin America and Africa
    * Middle East and Africa
    * U.S., Canada and Africa
  * Governance
    * Corruption
    * Governance
    * Human Rights
    * Land and Rural Issues
    * Legal Affairs
    * Media
    * NGO
  * Multimedia
    * Video
    * Audio
    * Document
    * Web Site
    * InFocus Pages
    * PhotoEssays
  * Innovation



  *   *  
  * 


## Leadership \(Abuja\)

Email Print Share

# Nigeria: Soldiers Seize Leadership, Daily Trust, the Nation Newspapers in Minna

By Abu Nmodu, Chika Otuchikere, Olaolu Oladipo, Patience Ivie Ihejirika, 10 June 2014

Photo: Daily Trust   


Though the Defence spokesperson, Major-General Chris Olukolade denied the clampdown, the army intercepted Daily Trust newspaper distribution to some states of the country and there was heavy presence of military men near the corporate headquarters of Media Trust Limited 

Despite the claim by military authorities that the siege on some selected newspapers was partially over, armed soldiers in Niger State have continued to intimidate and confiscate copies of LEADERSHIP, The Nation and Daily Trust in Niger State, stopping their circulation.

LEADERSHIP findings revealed that the copies of the three newspapers had been intercepted continuously at a military checkpoint after Chanchaga, about 10 kilometres from Minna.

As early as 6am yesterday, parcels of LEADERSHIP were impounded at the Kilometre 10 military checkpoint in Minna, while another set of armed soldiers stormed the distribution centre.

This move is contrary to the denial by defence spokesman, Major General Chris Olukolade, who said that the military had found nothing wrong with the editorial content of the affected papers and that the papers were now being distributed freely.

LEADERSHIP can report that for four days running, in addition to the newspapers being seized at the checkpoint, officers and men of 31 Field Artillery Brigade had been drafted to Fleet Street in Bosso, Minna from where newspapers are distributed, to make sure that none of the three newspapers circulated in the state.

Soldiers had been stationed up until noon each day, to make sure that none of the three titles were on the newsstands. Newspaper distributors and vendors in Minna were warned not to sell any of the three newspapers, as anyone caught doing so would be dealt with.

A man who was found with a copy of LEADERSHIP he bought from Suleja - the only place where the newspapers could be found in the state - was harassed and instructed to disclose where he had gotten the newspaper when he was apprehended in Minna by some soldiers.

All efforts by the commissioner for information in Niger State, Malam Danladi Ndayebo and the secretary to the Niger State government, Hon. Idris Ndako Kpaki, to get the military to release the newspapers being impounded at the checkpoint were still unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report.

Efforts to reach the spokesman of the 31 Artillery Brigade, Captain Salisu Mustapha for comment failed, as he could not be reached by phone. The chairman, Niger State Newspaper Vendors and Distributors Association, Mr. Festus Elijah, however said, "We are ready to sell any paper, but you have to help assure us that no member of the association will be harassed by the soldiers.

"The sad thing is that it is only Niger State that military are still laying siege. We have contacted other states and reports from there showed that sales of all papers has resumed."

Security checks on newspapers will continue - Military

The Nigerian military has said that the clampdown on the media would continue until the current security situation in the country has improved. Director of defence information, Maj Gen. Chris Olukolade, while explaining to journalists yesterday the reason for the continued confiscation of newspapers and search of vehicles conveying them, said the exercise was necessary as long as the present security challenges persisted.

Olukolade, speaking during the national briefing on the efforts to rescue the Chibok schoolgirls, appealed to media house owners and the general public to bear with the military. He insisted that the security checks on newspaper vans were informed by information linking the movement of materials with grave security implications to vans conveying newspapers.

Olukolade said the military had no problem with the media and would not for any reason hamper their activities.

"Please bear it in mind, this is not a military clampdown. Whatever checks you see is not aimed at disturbing the business of the media and that is why we would like to correct the remarks being made about what is going on."

#### Ads by Google

  *   *  
  * 


Copyright © 2014 Leadership. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media \(allAfrica.com\). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here.

AllAfrica publishes around 2,000 reports a day from more than 130 news organizations and over 200 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.

Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, please Contact us.

# InFocus

## Newspapers Owners Condemn, Govt Defends Siege by Nigerian Army

Nigerian media owners have condemned as an "attack on free speech" the military confiscation of the country's leading newspapers. On Friday and Saturday, soldiers harassed ... Read more »

  * Nigeria:  NBA - Clampdown On Newspapers Undemocratic
  * Nigeria:  Soldiers Seize Leadership, Daily Trust, the Nation Newspapers in Minna



  * More stories from this day»



# Follow AllAfrica

  *   *   *   *   *   *   * 


  


AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC. 

© 2014 AllAfrica // Privacy // Contact

Subscribe to AllAfrica via RSS

AllAfrica - All the Time 
