  * Opinion
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates
  * Play Games



Friday, June 10, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * \#PanamaPapers
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Interviews and Profiles
    * Opinion
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch
  * Letters



## SPECIAL REPORT: Inside the massive extrajudicial killings in Nigeria’s South-East

June 8, 2016Emmanuel Mayah

### Related News

It happened in quick successions. The day was December 17, 2015. News had just come over the radio of a court ruling in favour of the release of Nnamdi Kanu, the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra \(IPOB\).

Jubilant crowds poured out into the streets of Onitsha, the commercial capital of Anambra State. A group of soldiers stationed at the Head Bridge Market opened fire on one of the crowds.

By the time the smoke cleared, three people laid dead with over a dozen sprawled on the ground with gunshot wounds. The soldiers fled the scene but not without taking with them the three corpses.

Later in the afternoon, five more bodies were discovered meters away from the scene bringing to eight the number of people killed on the spot. Of wounded victims taken to hospitals, four later died, bringing to 12 the total number of victims who perished in the fatal shooting.

Three of the dead men were identified as Michael Nweke, 37; Peter Chukwuma Nwankwo, 26; and Mathew Ndukwe Kanu, 25. PREMIUM TIMES gathered that until his death in the hands of soldiers, Michael Nweke was a private security guard employed by the Catholic Reverend Sisters’ Convent at Nkpor in Idemili North local government area of Anambra State. He was a native of Aguekka Village in Ekka Community of Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi State.

Peter Chukwuma Nwankwo, an Onitsha-based trader, was a resident of Ezenwankwo Street in Ugwuagba Layout, Obosi. He hailed from Amaokpo in Nssakra Omege Community of Ezza South LGA of Ebonyi State. The third victim Mathew Ndukwe Kanu was an artisan in Onitsha and a resident of Obosi. He was a native of Ndiodo Community in Akanu-Ohafia LGA of Abia State.

Anxious family members went from police stations to mortuaries in search of missing or dead relatives. The search continued into the New Year. Leaving no stone unturned, the search party that included members of IPOB and a human rights organization, Intersociety for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, hired divers to search the River Niger fearing the corpses might have been dumped in there.

On February 15, 2016, two months after the killings, 31-year old Sunday Nweke, younger brother to Michael Nweke, received a phone call directing him to hurry to the Onitsha General Hospital with a photograph of his late brother. There he met some IPOB members who led him to a mortuary attendant. Sunday identified the body of his late brother. The attendant, whose identity was not revealed, disclosed that some soldiers of the Onitsha Army Barracks, accompanied by some police personnel from the Onitsha Central Police Station, deposited the bodies on December 21, 2015. The attendant claimed he and his colleagues were warned not to say anything or release the corpses to anyone.

Similarly, Frank Chijioke Nwankwo and Grace Onyinyechi Kanu, relations of Peter Chukwuma Nwankwo and Mathew Ndukwe Kanu respectively, received phone calls to come over to the Onitsha General Hospital. They too were able to identify the bodies of their brothers killed two months before.

Traders at the Onitsha HeadBridge Market told PREMIUM TIMES that the ill-fated crowd shot by the soldiers were neither armed nor protesting. Azu Okwuashi, a trader at the market, said there was nothing provocative about the activities of the crowd.

“They were mostly young men who ran out into the street to jubilate when they heard a court had ruled in favour of the release of Nnamdi Kanu. They were not protesting. Why would they protest what for them was a good news?” Mr. Okwuashi said.

Nnamdi Kanu, director of London-based Radio Biafra and leader of separatist Biafran organization, IPOB, was arrested in October 2015 by the State Security Service. The news of his arrest generated mass protests across parts of Enugu State, Delta, Imo, Abia, Cross River, Anambra, Akwa Ibom and Rivers State.

Despite meeting bail conditions, Mr. Kanu is still held, a situation that has continued to agitate his supporters within and outside the IPOB.

Prior to the Onitsha killings, PREMIUM TIMES had on December 2, 2015 reported the Inspector General of Police ordering his anti-riot force to ‘maximally’ restrain pro-Biafran protesters.

Earlier, on November 16, 2015 the General Officer Commanding 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Hassan Umaru, at a press conference in Maxwell Kobe Cantonment, Rukuba, Plateau State, warned “all those threatening and agitating for the dismemberment of the country that we shall apply the ROE \(Rule of Engagement\) to the fullest”.

From Onitsha to Aba, Enugu to Umuahia, activists say, ‘maximum force’ has been the operational code for the unprecedented police and military brutality that has led to the extrajudicial killings of an unknown number defenceless civilians across the zone.

Human Rights organisations like the Civil Liberties Organisation \(CLO\), the Intersociety for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, Amnesty International, Center for Human Rights & Peace Advocacy \(CHRPA\), and Forum for Justice have for years been documenting cases of extra-judicial killings in the South East, including what has been termed the murderous excesses of the special police unit called the Special Anti-Robbery Squad \(SARS\), stationed in Awkuzu, Anambra State.

Between August 2015 and February 2016, about 170 “unarmed citizens” were shot dead or critically injured while about 400 others were arrested, charged or detained without trial. The right groups allege “torture, inhuman and degrading treatments in the hands of personnel of the Nigeria Police Force \(NPF\)”.

There are scores of reported cases of disappearances, abductions and pretrial killings of suspected members of IPOB or MASSOB \(Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra\).

Statistics made available to PREMIUM TIMES by the rights groups show for example that four people were killed in Awka and Onitsha on August 30, 2015; 13 killed in Onitsha on December 2, 2015; 12 killed in Onitsha on 17th December 17, 2015; eight killed in Aba on January 18, 2016; six killed in Aba on January 29, 2016 and 22 killed in Aba on February 9, 2016.

Among the four citizens killed in Onitsha and Awka on August 30, 2015 were Ebuka Nnolum, a native of Enuguabo-Ufuma in Anambra State; and Obasi Maduka of Oshiri in Ebonyi State. Of the 13 citizens killed in Onitsha on December 2, 2015 were Anthonia Nkiruka Ikeanyionwu \(Anambra State\), Kenneth Ogadinma \(Abia State\), Chima Onoh \(Enugu State\), Angus Chikwado \(Anambra State\) and Felicia Egwuatu \(Anambra State\).

And of the four citizens who later died in hospital after being shot by soldiers on December 17, 2015 for jubilating Nnamdi Kanu’s court victory, only one had his identity revealed as Okwu Friday. The identities of the three others were not made public as requested by their respective families.

Emeka Umeagbalasi, Head of Intersociety for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law told PREMIUM TIMES that human rights groups were not always able to detect and capture every case of extra-judicial killings or torture by policemen or soldiers in the South East.

“Some of the victims’ families are too afraid to come forward to report to us even when they know the identities of the policemen or soldiers that took their sons away,” Mr. Umeagbalasi said.

### Massacre in school compound

What nobody was afraid to talk about was the mass killings by soldiers and policemen on February 9, 2016 of 22 IPOB members during a prayer session in a school compound in Aba, Abia State.

Human rights activists have called it an execution.

Emma Nmezu, IPOB spokesman, said to avoid unprovoked attacks of the type witnessed on December 2015 at the Onitsha Head Bridge, members of IPOB were advised to keep their activities off the road. Following this advice, over 100 IPOB supporters had on the fateful day assembled for a prayer meeting at the National High School, along Port Harcourt Road, Aba.

Survivors said that about 30 minutes later, at noon, the group was singing when a detachment of soldiers, policemen and naval personnel from a joint task force stormed the school compound and without much altercation began to shoot into the crowd.

Twenty-two people were shot dead on the spot. Over 30 others were left with various degrees of gunshot wounds. Among the 22 victims of the massacre were Uche Friday \(30\), from Asa in Abia State\); Emeka Ekpemandu \(35\), from Owerre Nkwoji in Imo State; Chiavoghi Chibuikem, from Obingwa in Abia State; Nzubechi Onwumere \(from Orlu in Imo State\); Peter Chinemerem Ukasoanya \(27\), from Isialangwa North in Abia State; Chigozie Cyril Nwoye \(23\), from Umuna in Ezeagu, Enugu State; Chukwudi Onyekwere \(26\), from Aboh Mbaise in Imo State; and Chibuzor Maduagwu \(28\), from Amauzari in Mbano, Imo State.

Survivors’ accounts also had it that 12 of the 22 dead bodies were taken away by the soldiers who came in Hilux vans. The killer soldiers were said to have come from the 144 Battalion of the Nigerian Army, located at Asa in Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia. At the time of the massacre, the 144 Battalion was commanded by Lt Col Kasim Umar Sidi.

The soldiers were joined by men of the Abia State Police Command as well as naval ratings from the Finance & Logistics Command of the Nigerian Navy, stationed in Owerre-Nta, Abia State. The Abia State Police Command was headed by Commissioner of Police Habila Hosea of service. The Area Commander was an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Peter Nwagbara.

The two officials declined to comment for this story. While Mr. Hosea did not answer or return calls, Mr. Nwagbara insisted all questions on the matter should be directed to the public relations officer of the command.

The Abia State Police Command publicly admitted to shooting and killing two IPOB members “for disturbing students of the National High School in Aba”.

Among the survivors of that shooting incident were Ikechukwu Ugwuoha, Amos Ezekiel, Okechukwu Nnebedum Nkume, Abia State Zonal Coordinator, Donatus Okeke and Joseph Okolie who had come for the IPOB meeting from Port Harcourt. They were arrested by the police, arraigned for “treasonable felony” along 15 other IPOB members and are currently remanded in Aba Prisons.

### Bodies found in borrow pits

Four days after the killings at National High School, scavengers on February 13, 2016 raised the alarm upon finding 13 dead bodies in a borrow pit located along Aba Port Harcourt Road.

The borrow pit was months earlier converted to a refuse dump by the government of Abia State. IPOB claimed the bodies in the pit included those of its members arrested and taken away by soldiers who stormed the prayer meeting in the school premises. The dead men were obvious victims of extra-judicial killings.

Photographs seen by PREMIUM TIMES revealed that the men were lying face down with pieces of clothes tied over their eyes. The bodies were dumped in a group of eight, three and two respectively.

### We put most of the photographs gathered during investigations for this story in this link because they are too gory to be displayed without warning. Click on this link to view them. \(Warning: Images are gory\)

Eight of the dead men had their hands tied behind their backs with Biafra flags said to have been among personal items taken away by the soldiers after the school compound shooting days earlier. An amateur photograph earlier taken with a mobile phone captures some soldiers and other unidentified persons dumping fresh corpses from a van into a mass grave. The 144 Battalion military barracks is about 10 kilometers away from the Borrow Pit.

Concerned members of IPOB and the human rights organization, Intersociety for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, were among the first people to visit the borrow pit on Sunday, February 14, 2016. As words spread, representatives of Amnesty International came to the site on Thursday, February 18, 2016.

Three more corpses were discovered in another borrow pit behind a mosque located between the Timber Market and the Arewa Onions Market, near Uratta Junction, along Aba-Port Harcourt Road. The three corpses were covered with leaves after being doused with chemical substances suspected to be acid and embalmment fluid. The choice of chemicals was probably to shrink the corpses to the bones, make victims’ identification difficult while keeping the bodies odourless.

Amnesty research group, led by Justine Ijeomah, was reported to have said they were “investigating the strong allegations of excessive application of force by the Nigerian security forces against peaceful and nonviolent IPOB protesters during their protests in Anambra, Enugu and Abia States”.

The Amnesty team had on that Thursday, February 18, when they first visited the burrow pit, taken photograph and video evidences. However when the team returned on Wednesday, March 2, they were shocked to find that the 13 corpses had been set on fire and were smouldering. Obviously, someone was determined to destroy the evidence. Amnesty International has video recordings of the burning skulls and skeletons.

### Petitions to UN Rights Commission

Following the discovery of burning corpses, human rights groups working in South East Nigeria have petitioned the National Security Adviser, Chief Justice of Nigeria, the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights, United Nations Chief Repertoire on Extra Judicial Killings, the European Union, among others.

Following expressions of concern by international bodies of extra-judicial activities against indigenous groups in the South East, the Nigerian Army announced on February 21 that it had dispatched an investigative team to Aba to ascertain claims of massacre of 22 IPOB members. The announcement was made by the Provost Marshal, Nigerian Army, Brig-Gen. Ayuba Tedman Hamman, during the commissioning of the newly established Human Rights Desk, Department of Civil-Military Affairs, Army Headquarters, Abuja.

“I want to say that since COAS \(Chief of Army Staff\) was appointed I have been inundated with complaints of human rights reports,” Mr. Hamman said. “I think there is a lot of gap, and that’s why this desk was established…

“We have sent an investigative team to ascertain the issue in Abia State about the complaint that our men shot some people involved in peaceful protests. I have confidence in our team and I know this was a joint operation but since we are part of it, we still need to verify. We investigate and at the end of the day prosecute the culprits.”

Over three months after, the outcome of the military investigation is yet to be made public. Human rights observers say the military investigation was dead on arrival given that three days before Mr. Hamman’s public assurances, the Nigerian Army had announced it had temporarily relocated the tactical headquarters of its 14 Brigade headquarters from Ohafia to Aba in an effort to curb the activities of IPOB and MASSOB.

The Commanding Officer, 14 Brigade Ohafia, Brigadier General Lawrence Fejoku, told newsmen he was in Aba to put in check the menace of pro-Biafra agitators and other violent crimes.

Mr. Fejoku also used that opportunity to deny that the military shot and killed 22 unarmed pro-Biafran supporters during a prayer session in Aba.

### The killing continues

The Nigerian Army and the police on May 30 admitted killing no fewer than five persons when members of IPOB and MASSOB trooped out across the South-East states in marches to commemorate the 49th anniversary of the declaration of the defunct Biafra Republic by late warlord, Odumegwu Ojukwu.

Activists said the crowds were unarmed and that many more people were killed than the security agencies are ready to admit.

But the army claimed that in killing the pro-Biafra activists and wounding several others, its troops acted in self-defence as well as in defence of lives and property of peace-loving Nigerians.

The Nigerian government is yet to investigate the killings.

### We put most of the photographs gathered during investigations for this story in this link because they are too gory to be displayed without warning. Click on this link to view them. \(Warning: Images are gory\)

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

### More in Investigation/Special Reports

  * ###  INVESTIGATION: How Governors Dickson, Okowa spend billions on high tech spying on opponents, others 

  * ###  PREMIUM TIMES SPECIAL: Kano Killing: What Islam says about blasphemy and killings 

  * ###  INVESTIGATION: Ecological Funds: How Billions Go Down The Drain 

  * ###  INVESTIGATION: Skolombo Boys: How parents abused, abandoned children on streets of Calabar 

  * ###  \#PanamaPapers: How ex-NNPC GMD operated secret account to buy posh property while in office 

  * ###  EXCLUSIVE: Buhari’s anti-corruption adviser in examination malpractice scandal 




### Top News

  * ###  Fraud suspect dies in EFCC custody 

  * ###  Nigeria to relocate govt offices to properties seized from looters 

  * ###  Judge threatens National Hospital over Metuh 




  * UOU

Buhari will not go scot free of all these heinous crimes, including all his collaborators. Human may or may not punish them but God will smash them so painfully

    * Tommy

Amen…

I am a Yoruba man who detest injustice. Igbos too need to stop terming us enemies. We both know who the real enemies are. 

      * Kickboxer

Yariba slaves are the real enemies at least in Southern Nigeria and they will pay. Watch and see and pray…

      * Otile

These beasts are the real Igbo haters along with Buhari…

Bambam  
•  
3 hours ago

…if I had my way I would love to gather 95% of all Ibo men on Niger bridge and blow them all up..while cautiously leaving behind just five percent good ones amongst the whole Ibo race..also the 70% good Ibo girls/women should also be left behind in Nigeria..their calling is to service Yoruba men..but their men you can dump them all in River Niger..Animals\!\!

      * tkay

Stop massaging their ego. It is not worth it

      * UOU

Igbos can never be slave nor submit to any tribe or group, at least, not the present generation. The heinous crime being committed and perptuated by buhari and his supporters against the Igbos can go on for now but not forever. South african blacks ably led by Madiba, faced worse challenge so far but are now free and better. No real freedom comes easily, infact, Nigerian freedom through independence was so risk free that, it was undermined and abused even before it took. Thank you for being frank and truthful but conspirators to all the murder and pogrom by this evil government know themselves and shall perish with the actors, when the time comes

  * michael

Thank u PT for reporting what others cannot report, the whole world is watching who buhari killer squad are killing innocent people, Buhari will die a shameful death very soon.

  * Otile

We want Biafra  
Death to Buhari and his killing squad  
Death to Fulani killers and their collaborators

  * FreeNigeria

The MIGHTY Nigerian Army, so powerful against defenseless civilian, but BIG CHICKEN against Niger Delta criminals and Boko Haram. The failed state called NIGERIA\!\!\!\!\!

    * Tommy

NDA are not criminals, stop terming them one. 

The Nigerian army is just a bunch of boyscouts, who doesn’t think. 

I hope Nigeria survives this

  * Rollingdollar

Buhari is a blood thirsty scoundrel, his death will be slow and painful. Cruel human being 

  * TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO

The orders to kill Igbo youth agitating for Biafra is well orchestrated and planned from the Aso-rock HQ with three main culprits playing leading roles in the serial acts of massacre of unarmed youth. BUHARI + Dambazzau + Buratai are directly responsible and some hand-picked northern soldiers were detailed for the killings. All military formations in the SS and SE including Police formations are commanded by northerners to make sure that the killings are covered once they take place.

The scale of the killings were massive and with impunity.The western contries and international community cannot claim ignorance,the world is watching and the question remains,IS THE LIFE OF AN IGBO WORTH LESS THAN OIL AND GAS

  * Paul Young

This is so sad

  * UNAFFECTED

I know that soldiers and policemen are itching to kill anybody that gives them an excuse, no matter how flimsy. That is the simple reason why I advocate against protestations, jubilation or even group prayers in the name of Biafra. These things will not win you a republic. Converging anywhere will merely be providing them targets. Maybe people will understand why Boko Haram took the part of destroying this country because they suffered the same fate. If you want Biafra, get your own guns and duke it out with these cowards. There is nothing like peaceful protest. It is an oxymoron.

    * sab

Nothing like peaceful? Why didn’t they wipe out NLC protesters? Why hanen’t they exterminated all political protests? Why didn’t they shoot the ‘Occupy Nigeria’ protesters since it has become a license for the military to shoot at protesters, as in your opinion, there’s nothing like peaceful protest.

      * UNAFFECTED

My point is in the contest of Biafra.

  * thusspokez

If you gave guns to people, they would use it; some more trigger-happy than others. All these innocent people wouldn’t have been killed.

I don’t know why every soldier and law enforcement officer in Nigeria has to carry guns. You will think that Nigeria is an enemy country that has just been conquered or liberated. I also wonder how many of them have had the proper training to shot straight or properly.

    * Michael

In fact not every law enforcement officer carries a gun; for instance in the police it’s only specifically trained police in fire arms that carry guns. The greater problem is the use of the army as police men. The army had no business trying to control crowds or being asked outside barracks to harrass innocent people. Under the constitution they are meant to protect the nation in times of war etc etc. This country is so sick at the core and the citizenry so complicit. You have to ask why this news is coming out now. What do our media houses actually do, particularly stations like Channels who pathetically just like to report on politics and stay away from any investigative journalism particularly if it could embarrass the government. 

      * thusspokez

In peace time, the army should be found some other distractions; Some could be retrained and put into civilian use, e.g., physical education in primary schools, and basic military training in secondary schools — I believe in basic military training for all. Others include boot-camps for teenagers who might be troublesome, obese, lazy etc.

At least, these options are better than having them in the streets to then shoot innocent people.

  * MC

It’s good that the erstwhile anti-Igbo, pro-Buhari Premiumtimes is now the ones reporting some of Buhari’s secret plan to exterminate the Igbo race.

    * Tunji Olarewaju

Deservedly too. What are you fools contributing to the advancement of the human race? Crime\! 

  * Etomi

Like Buhari managed to dispatched these crowd to the grave, I pray he dies in the UK and never returns back…

Buhari is EVIL\!\!\!\!

  * Tommy

I’m dripping in tears on how human lives has become so cheap in Nigeria, and those saddled with the responsibility of protecting citizens lives are now the one taking it. 

What a country? 

    * logmein2nite

Of course, I didn’t expect much comments here. The usual Yariba commentators pretend they didn’t read this article. No problem.

      * Otile

They cannot afford to displease their Fulani masters.

        * tkay

The same Fulani have been the masters of the S/E ati S/S since independence. While the S/W have always been in the opposition of AG, UPN, AD and now APC. And now that the table have turned, you guys want to eat your cake and still have it. You must swallow the bitter pill of the result of your years of servitude to the Fulanis that you have been hobnobbing with since independence, but that you now hate with passion. It serves you people right.

          * Akatikpo

But the Igbos fought this Hausa Fulanis for 3 years and the Yorubas aligned with them. If the Igbos so loved them how come they fought them for 3 years?

.

          * Michael

He never said you loved them. He said you were in servitude to them. In a sense he’s right. 

          * Tunji Olarewaju

Gbam\! A million gbosas for you 

  * TrueFairGame

The military’s record in handling these type of crisis has not changed over the years. One can still remember, odi, zakibiam, zaria, etc. It is not only in the SE therefore looking at it from sectional view is itself ‘inciting’. The military has a lot to do and followers too must be responsible because freedom must be balanced with responsibility. I personally believe that Calling for that same ‘Biafra’ that resulted in the death of over 2m innocent lives during the civil war is very unwise

    * Otile

Is that the reason Oduduwa repubic died unnatural death? Coward.

    * sab

Even when the assembly are unarmed?

  * tsunami1earthquake

After watching this it becomes exceedingly sickening to even think these Igbo are still part of Nigeria. It becomes a phenomenon capable of inducing vomiting that a government worth its salt would close its eyes to these continuous killings that have morphed into genocide. It becomes evident that these events have become a state-organized and orchestrated attempt at eliminating a particular section of the people in Nigeria. 

And the world is watching\! And this was how the same world watched in 1966 when these same people were massacred and nobody up till now has revived that case as a case of genocide. Unfortunately that world of 1966 has not changed in 2016, fifty years on\! That same world still watches unconcerned as the same state organization is committing the same acts of genocide against the same people\!

Come to think of it\! What crime have the Igbo committed to warrant this kind of treatment? What crime have the IPOB committed to warrant this kind of treatment? The entire world community had converged in the United Nations, at various times in the life of this United Nations, under various aegis, including the General Assembly of the UN to declare that it is the inalienable right of people, communities, groups of societies to a claim of self-determination. And many societies all over the world have been exercising this right without hindrance, let alone being subjected to the kind of torture and genocidal acts as are being visited on the Igbo of Nigeria. Notable amongst these societies in contemporary times are the Scottish of Great Britain, the Quebecois of Canada, to mention a few. Ironically, in the case of the Quebecois, this region of Canada has produced Canadian Prime Ministers more than other Provinces of Canada. 

If the world would accept the rights of these peoples to exercise their rights of self-determination, why must the same world sit at arms akimbo and watch a calculated decimation of the Igbo who have exercised the same right? Is this a calculated attempt by the world, as it did in 1966-1970, to see to the extermination of the Igbo race? I sincerely hope not. I sincerely hope not, for the same world body came up in the aftermath of the Second World War to declare a new state of Israel when it had become evident that the Jewish race had been and was being subjected to unabated massacres that placed the Jews on the brink of extinction. So why would the world not step into Nigeria at this auspicious moment and help set machinery in motion to free these Igbo people from extinction?

It would be a dent on humanity and a total desecration of the very ideals of the United Nations to allow these continuous genocidal activities against the Igbo people of Nigeria. For a start, I urge members of the international community to stop immediately the supply of arms to Nigeria. I make this plea because majority of the arms being supplied to Nigeria end up being used in carrying out these genocidal activities against the Igbo people of Nigeria. It was sickening and disheartening to read recently the decision of Germany to supply arms to the Nigerian state. It was sickening because that immediately whacked the mind back to the Germany of the 1930s and 1940s. We hope that the mindset of those times are not being played back in the recent decision of Germany to supply arms to Nigeria in order to enable Nigeria continue its unabated killings of the Igbo.

    * forestgee

I think the government will NEVER respect peaceful demonstration…which then validates what Niger Delta Avengers are doing\!

    * Michael

“I make this plea because majority of the arms being supplied to Nigeria  
end up being used in carrying out these genocidal activities against  
the Igbo people of Nigeria.”

Are you for real? Are you hallucinating? It’s not only Igbos that have suffered injustices. It’s only a matter of months ago that the shiite community suffered up to 400 people massacred by this government. Killing is wrong irrespective of ethnicity.

      * tsunami1earthquake

Your mention of the Shi’ite community has added more strength to my plea to the international community regarding supply of arms to Nigeria. The Shi’ite community matter is another ticking bomb that will explode in the future. That was how the Boko Haram started after the killing of their leader, Yusuf. The silence after that was ominous until it gave way to the Boko Haram explosion. We hope Buratai and his army would have the opportunity to slaughter more Shi’ites at that time.

  * RestructureNigeria

PROMISE YOURSELF & LOVED ONES PEACE. SUPPORT THE RESTRUCTURING OF NIGERIA ACCORDING TO THE 2014 NATIONAL CONFERENCE…..

REMEMBER…..

As long the Muslim population remains around or under 2% in any given country, they will be for the most part be regarded as a peace-loving minority, and not as a threat to other citizens. Although there WILL be Islamic attacks..

United States — Muslim 0.6%

Australia — Muslim 1.5%

Canada — Muslim 1.9%

China — Muslim 1.8%

Italy — Muslim 1.5%

Norway — Muslim 1.8%

At 2% to 5%, they begin to proselytize from other ethnic minorities and disaffected groups, often with major recruiting from the jails and among street gangs. There will be MORE attacks at this level

This is happening in:

Denmark — Muslim 2%

Germany — Muslim 3.7%

United Kingdom — Muslim 2.7%

Spain — Muslim 4%

Thailand — Muslim 4.6%

From 5% on, they exercise an inordinate influence in proportion to their percentage of the population. For example, they will push for the introduction of halal \(clean by Islamic standards\) food, thereby securing food preparation jobs for Muslims. They will increase pressure on supermarket chains to feature halal on their shelves — along with threats for failure to comply. There will now be a level of fear from the natural population towards muslims This is occurring in:

France — Muslim 8%

Philippines — 5%

Sweden — Muslim 5%

Switzerland — Muslim 4.3%

The Netherlands — Muslim 5.5%

Trinidad & Tobago — Muslim 5.8%

At this point, they will work to get the ruling government to allow them to rule themselves \(within their ghettos\) under Sharia, the Islamic Law. The ultimate goal of Islamists is to establish Sharia law over the entire world.

When Muslims approach 10% of the population, they tend to increase lawlessness as a means of complaint about their conditions. In Paris , we are already seeing car-burnings. Any non-Muslim action offends Islam, and results in uprisings and threats, such as in Amsterdam , with opposition to Mohammed cartoons and films about Islam. Such tensions are seen daily, particularly in Muslim sections, in: Almost DAILY attacks in this range

Guyana — Muslim 10%

India — Muslim 13.4%

Israel — Muslim 16%

Kenya — Muslim 10%

Russia — Muslim 15%

After reaching 20%, nations can expect hair-trigger rioting, jihad militia formations, sporadic killings, and the burnings of Christian churches and Jewish synagogues, such as in:

Ethiopia — Muslim 32.8%

At 40%, nations experience widespread massacres, chronic terror attacks, and ongoing militia warfare, such as in:

Bosnia — Muslim 40%

NIGERIA– Muslim 42.8%

Chad — Muslim 53.1%

Lebanon — Muslim 59.7%

From 60%, nations experience unfettered persecution of non-believers of all other religions \(including non-conforming Muslims\), sporadic ethnic cleansing \(genocide\), use of Sharia Law as a weapon, and \*\*\*ya, the tax placed on infidels, such as in:

Albania — Muslim 70%

Malaysia — Muslim 60.4%

Qatar — Muslim 77.5%

Sudan — Muslim 70%

After 80%, expect daily intimidation and violent jihad, some State-run ethnic cleansing, and even some genocide, as these nations drive out the infidels, and move toward 100% Muslim, such as has been experienced and in some ways is on-going in:

Bangladesh — Muslim 83%

Egypt — Muslim 90%

Gaza — Muslim 98.7%

Indonesia — Muslim 86.1%

Iran — Muslim 98%

Iraq — Muslim 97%

Jordan — Muslim 92%

Morocco — Muslim 98.7%

Pakistan — Muslim 97%

Palestine — Muslim 99%

Syria — Muslim 90%

Tajikistan — Muslim 90%

Turkey — Muslim 99.8%

United Arab Emirates — Muslim 96%

100% will usher in the peace of ‘Dar-es-Salaam’ — the Islamic House of Peace. Here there’s supposed to be peace, because everybody is a Muslim, the Madrasas are the only schools, and the Koran is the only word, such as in:

Afghanistan — Muslim 100%

Saudi Arabia — Muslim 100%

Somalia — Muslim 100%

Yemen — Muslim 100%

Unfortunately, peace is never achieved, as in these 100% states the most radical Muslims intimidate and spew hatred, and satisfy their blood lust by killing less radical Muslims, for a variety of reasons. Then you have BOKO HARAM, ISIS..Islam with a hall pass\!\!\!

    * Ebele

You are ignorant of Muslim Popularity in most of the countries quoted. You are also a lier to say Nigeria has 42.8% Muslims. Please get your data correct.

      * Ebele

And if that is true, the Buhari should’nt have won the 2015 general election bcos the criminals in pdp mostly used religion as their talking point and still lost the election

  * tkay

LESSON LEARN: Let the leaderships of IPOB stop instigating some gullible S/E youths, through hate broadcasts, into agitations and public protests against the state.  
There are more civil ways of passing information of grievances across to the relevant authorities. Issuing verbal and insulting hate broadcasts against the state as is being done by IPOB through Radio Biafra, Bombing of national assets and launching of missiles by the NDA are irresponsible ways of achieving any agenda, it will all only lead to avoidable shedding of blood, as no responsible state will succumb to sectarian intimidation and threat to national peace.

  * marc umeh

As long as the Igbos and their despicable leaders act as conquered people , then they will be treated as such.  
After the killings did anybody witness the closing of schools and shops in protest.—-NO  
Did anyboby hear their leaders agonising over the mass murder of their citizens —NO  
What we saw are some Igbos gallivanting to Lagos apparently to congratulate their master.  
Do not cry for this people \!\!\!

    * tkay

True talk bro

  * Wisdom Essien

Buhari administration: Anti – corruption, Anti – human rights

  * Godfrey Etokebe

Dear premium times editors,

How much were you paid to write the truth FOR ONCE?

  * ODOFIN, Lagos

What is interesting about this write-up is that it failed to report the policemen and soldiers and other tribe that were killed by IPOB members during their protest including the policeman that was thrown into the River Niger in the name of “peaceful’ protests. Or are these men not human too in the dictionary of IPOB. I pity the Igbo people in leaving in other parts of Nigeria – they will be target of attacks if other tribes act irresponsibly like IPOB members. Honestly, I think other igbos should speak out against these misguided elements fomenting troubles needlessly

    * Wisdom Essien

The incident you re referring to happened less than a month ago and that’s if the claim by the police is even true. This reports starts from December last year when unarmed protesters have been killed continuously. If indeed this protesters are now being violent then the government has provoked them to it. In any case, one expects the state to be more responsible.  
There is something undeniably UNJUST about this and I hope we as Nigerians are human enough to admit it.

      * tkay

If the police claim may not be true from your response, then why would the claims of the Biafran agitators be true?  
The S/E and S/S agitations, protests and bombings are all borne out of hatred for PMB/APC and the result of anything done with underlining hate is destruction and death

        * Wisdom Essien

So what if it is “borne out of hatred”? No agitations any where in the world are borne out of love. Are you saying that “borne out of hatred” is a justification for these extra-judicial killings? I pray not\!\!  
On the other hand, you quite conveniently ignore the point about the “state” killing the protesters long before the protesters turned violent which makes the security agents to blame for the violent nature of the protests as of today.  
NO responsible government acts this way.

    * sab

Odofin, did the army show you the arms and a munitions the protester were carrying or used against them? I believe you are on the wrong side of facts and trending on sentiments. Army and police stormed school ground where people are PRAYING and started shooting and you see nothing wrong in that? If you want Igbos to be targets in other tribes, what do you call the herdsmen activities? You claim IPOB are armed because you detest their demand and chose to give dog a bad name just to hang it. Pity\!

    * Darlington

God will visit you with the same pain and sorrow these guys were subjected to. You will cry helplessly in the time of injustice and no one will be there to answer.

      * ODOFIN, Lagos

Unfortunately, your prayer is returned to you in double-fold. Where were these agitators when gej was in power? or is it that gej fixed all the problems in the south-east including all their highways that turn to death traps? where were IPOB members when the political alliance between the North and SouthEast/SouthSouth was rosy? why is now that South-East/SouthSouth lost out in the political relevance that IPOB remember they have agendas? One thing is clear their agitation is political and not economical. I x-rayed the Nigeria and concluded that Igbo people have more to loose if IPOB have their ways. You know why? There are more Igbo people outside SS/SE with more assets across the Country than other tribes in South-East. More Igbo people will forefeit their wealth and means of livelihood. Do you think right thinking Igbo people will support such unreasonable demands of IPOB? Let test the issue, you ask all Igbos in other parts of the country to return to South East and see their response. Stop fooling yourself, IPOB,NDA and their alliances are political and they are not for the good of the masses but their self-interest.

    * North/West Allies

So you believed that they killed those soldiers and police? Well God is watching you and them, herdsmen are caring AK47 killing and raping women …FG just announced that he will not use military, but they are using military and assault weapons on innocent protesters

    * Iko Mmiri

Yellowbar coward…Pig

    * AlBsure23

Your untimely death is fast coming. Believe me.

      * ODOFIN, Lagos

I reject your death threat. Your wish will fall on you IJN

  * alabi olubunmi

This is a shocking and damning report. Everyone has the right to agitate for whatever they feel especially in a non violent manner. There has to be consequences for killing unharmed civilians no matter where they are from. A great injustice has been done in this matter and I stand with anyone who condemns this and urges strong action against the perpetrators. This cannot and must not be condoned under any guise

    * North/West Allies

Thanks

  * Darlington

Buhari must definitely pay for all these gruesome atrocities committed against Biafrans. History will never be fair to that bloody thirsty demon called President.

  * IZON Redeemer

Muslim Youths Attack Christians In Kaduna For Not Fasting During Ramadan.

A young christian, Francis Emmanuel, a 41-year-old man, was attacked by some youths in Kauri, a community in Kaduna state, for not observing the Ramadan fast.

Emmanuel, a carpenter, said the youth who were passing by, saw him eating at his work station, and approached him to find out why he was not partaking in the spiritual exercise.

He said they descended on him after he explained to them that he is not a Muslim, revealing that he did not know how he landed at St. Gerald Catholic Hospital, still in Kaura, where he has been responding to treatment.

“I went to buy wood that I would use to work, and on my way back, I decided to buy what I will eat,” he said.

“As I was eating, about six boys came to me and asked me whether I am a Muslim or a Christian, but I did not answer them. They asked me why I was not fasting, and it was at that point that I told them that I am not a Muslim.

“Before I knew what was happening, one of them slapped me. As I stood up in order to escape, the rest surrounded me. They started kicking me, using knives and other dangerous objects to attack me.

“Nobody could come to my aid because of the weapons in their possession. At some point, I lost consciousness. I don’t even know who brought me to the hospital.”

  * IZON Redeemer

we warned Nigerians to stay away from Buhari but they refused–allowed the Yorubas to lure them into the den of buhari

  * stanejike

Crime against humanity\! Genocide in the making…. Collapse of Nigeria loading…. For these to be averted, the virus in the mode of PMB must first be deleted…. 

  * Eze

it is so unfortunate that we all have a way of muldling up issues. the extra judicial killings of pro biafran did not start today. it started as soon as the campaign resurrected with uwazuruike and co. and this predate buhari. ofcourse the bulk stops at the president’s table as he is the C in C. this report should be appreciated as an institutional defects synonymous with colonial and military dictatorship. all the service chiefs and commanding officers should be held responsible in as much as the C in C. but to say the death or removal of buhari as the president is the solution is at best to say, a fallacy. our security institutions seem to be worst off under the socalled democracy than even when the British were ruling us. I can only pray for the souls of these innocent ones, and ask anyone within this forum so touched about, and in a position, to see how this report can be made popular to international community could know what is going on.

  * Sir Louis

It is shameful and disgusting that a country’s military personnel will at every prompting use lethal force on its citizens. Such an Army cannot claim to be well trained and modern, but such bloody and violent acts should be reported to the United Nations and the International Criminal Court, for necessary action as it constitutes a crime against humanity. Also, such barbarism and low consideration for human life would tend to legitimize the agitation of victims of such cruelty, whatever it is\! Shame on the Army and their fellow security operatives.

    * ed

Unfortunately President Obama continue to pretend that all is well with President Buhari’s regime. They iqnored all the reality on ground in Nigeria to pump up the recklessness of President Buhari regime.  
The picture and the story as heart breaking as it is hardly ever gets an coverage in the compromised western media. Only act against Muslims count as news worthy to the west. The story didn’t include the mass killing of Shi’ites Zaria in Kaduna state by the military. 

  * Dan Arewa

Bad.

  * marig

Soldiers do what soldiers do. Kill\! Those agitating for the break up of this country must know that maximum force will be used to keep this country together. Same goes for those criminals in the creeks. Nobody is advising them to stop destroying this country’s vital infrastructure now. When those who are elected to protect this country send soldiers to those creeks, you will hear these same stories again. Serves you right\!

    * Iko Mmiri

No Biafra, no peace for your children children……….Evil and disgusting Nigeria must fall

      * Dan Arewa

Ojukwu said that before you. Where is he now? He died with the ghost of Biafra.

        * rising sun

your desert tribesmen will never produce a giant like him. ewu awusa

        * emmanuel

Your fears? If the Igbos leave and the Niger Delta, you would die of starvation, because the Yorobbers cannot sustain you by buying Tomatoes and nama \(eron\) from you.  
So any mention of Biafra and Republic of Niger Delta is nightmarish to you and your people. Sori o, we must all leave\!

        * Iko Mmiri

Where is your father now?

    * ed

You should be ashamed of yourself. 

    * AlBsure23

One thing is clear, you will NEVER have peace in Nigeria.

      * Dan Arewa

You will never have peace in Biafra. That’s the truth.

        * AlBsure23

Right now there is no peace in Biafra and the same applies to Nigeria. A problem somewhere is problem everywhere.

    * Fuzio

Start plotting your next act. The party is over. The era of living off of other peoples sweat is over. It is time you took responsibility for your own life.

  * Iko Mmiri

Evil Nigeria must fall

  * Igwe Bu Ike

I have no sympathy for IPOB members. They want to die. Nigerians are very uncivilised people and you cannot get Biafra by demonstrating peaceful on the streets or conducting prayers. Praying did not work for Biafra in the 60s and will not work this time around. To get Biafra and bring Nigeria to negotiating table you must be fully armed to the teeth. You can start the war from oil producing areas if you want the war to end quickly or if you want Nigeria to negotiate. All this street protests cannot work in any African country. Just follow Charles Taylor of Liberia style , and it will work very fast. Buy AK-47, recruit and arm ragtag fighters as many as possible and send them out in thousands against murderous Nigerian soldiers, and the rest is history. Without arm struggle, no Biafra. 

Note, Nigeria is not India where Gandhi preached none violence. Gandhi was dealing with Europeans – liberal minded Europeans, and Martin Luther-King Jr was also dealing with while american leaders also liberal minded. Here in Nigeria you are dealing with heartless black people, and tribalists. Nigeria is now begging to negotiate with newly created avengers, but IPOB and MASSOB ARE BEING hunted down and killed like chickens by notorious happy triggered uncivilized Nigerian tribalistic soldiers.

    * TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO

ALL HAIL BIAFRA

LONG LIVE BIAFRA \!\!

BIAFRA FOREVER \!\!

    * Fuzio

You are right. The only language Nigeria understands is that of force.

    * teflonjones

Well said.

  * Artful ºDodger

Load of nonsense\! The death of social miscreants and nuisance is a service to humanity and not worthy of the pages of newspapers. They have gone ahead to hell to set up a cabinet in wait for kanu the son of a whore\!

God bless the Nigeria military and the human race\!

    * TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO

ALL HAIL BIAFRA

LONG LIVE BIAFRA \!\!

    * Fuzio

One of those miscreants was Moshood Abiola, whose demise saved Nigeria from unnecessary distraction.

    * emmanuel

The same maga talking rubbish. Not to worry, there is a way that is just right for your thinking – NGA.  
You will know who are the miscreants and the real men.  
Animals who stab a man for eating his well deserve meal because some id\*\*ts who ate by 5.30am across the World; pretending to be fasting were jealous of what others who do not worship their sun god enjoy.

    * Ochon

U and your whole generation will be victims of extral judicial killing one day. Your heartlessness is appalling I find it difficult to believe these words came out a human. U must be a beast

  * JUST ME

PREMIUM TIMES:  
INSPITE OF MY ADMONITION TO YOU TO STOP AND DESIST FROM DELETING MY COMMENTS YOU IGNORANT BUNCVH CONTINUED IN YOUR DESTRUCTIVE WAYS. I WILL NOW TAKE THE GLOVES OFF TO ENGAGE YOU FOLKS IN A BARE KNUCKLE, NO-HOLD-BARRED RUMBLE IN THE CYBER JUNGLE. IT IS NOT GOING TO BE PRETTY AS WHAT I AM ABOUT TO DO WILL SO AFFECT YOU THAT YOU WILL LEARN TO LEAVE ME ALONE.  
I SHALL REMOVE AS USUAL ABOVE THE FRAY – COLONEL MARIAM

  * Excisionist

Igbo-phobia is the most common disease among northern Muslims. Drastic measures are needed to cure it. Prosecution of the army or police officers involved should be made priority. If not, the victim group should fish out families of the perpetrators where ever they are and exact their pond of flesh




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 10,886 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

### LETTERS

  * LETTER: ‘UNILAG graduate with 5.00 CGPA deserves national honour’

  * LETTER: ‘Buhari lied, Sokoto has no Federal Permanent Secretary’

  * T.B Joshua releases alarming 2016 predictions


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us



All content is Copyrighted © 2016 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
