  * Home
  * About Us
  * Paper Ad Rate
  * Online Ad Rates
  * Contact Us



  


  * National
  * Politics
  * Business
  * Sports
  * Editorial
  * Entertainment
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Columns
    * Broken Tongues
    * Capital Matters
    * Duro Onabule
    * Femi Adesina
    * FrankTalk
    * Funke Egbemode
    * Insights
    * Kalu Leadership Series
    * Offside Musings
    * PressClips
    * Public Sphere
    * Ralph Egbu
    * Sideview
    * The Flipside – Eric Osagie
    * Turf Game
    * Views from Abroad



# Army moves against terrorism in Lagos

Our Reporter February 7, 2014 1 Comment »

BY PHILIP NWOSU

The Nigerian Army said it would put measures on ground to boost its capacity to handle insurgency in Nigeria especially within Lagos and Ogun states.

The General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Obi Umahi, made the disclosure yesterday at the commissioning of the 65 Battalion Alfa and Bravo Company Offices.

The building, which was sponsored by Lieutenant General TY Danjuma, was constructed under the leadership of the Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Colonel Haruna Dasuki.

Umahi said: “In the army, when we plan for operations or even when we take our threat analysis, we assume the worse case scenario in our plans and we plan from that point of strength.

“We come up with contingencies to deal with the worst situations and if the situation is lighter, it makes it easier for us in terms of executing it. So, we are prepared for any manner of scenario and we are dressing up for it. All these while, it was not as if we were naive that a spread might occur but through the operations we have on, we believe that the situation is getting better especially in the northern flank.”

The GOC said notwithstanding the upper hand by the military, they would not lower their guards, adding that if anything happens anywhere in the country, they would be proactive enough to tackle it.

While admitting knowledge of the rumour making the rounds on recent plans by the Boko Haram sect to attack military formations, he said the services were in top gear to counter such attacks. He said: “We are aware of the rumor of an attack making the rounds but nothing concrete yet to substantiate it.

“But the information available either at a rumour or intelligence level, would not be wished away, rather, we would factor it in our contingency plan.

“We don’t arrest for the fun of it, rather, because we have concrete evidence that there is a link between the suspects and terrorism. We have not made any arrests recently but if we see the need to make any arrest, we would do so.”

While commending Gen Danjuma, he said the transformation agenda in the army is not talk-chop rather action backed by action, adding that anyone that has not imbibed the attitudinal change has not keyed into the agenda.

 

The Co, Lt. Dasuki while speaking to journalists, said Gen Danjuma bought into the idea because the unit was not empowered financially to take up such a huge project.

Tweet

Pin It

* * *

Join saharabet.com and get up to N500 free bet. Click here\!

——————————————-

7 Deadly Mistakes Men Make in The Bedroom\!

—————————————

How to Earn N100,000 monthly with your FACEBOOK Account. Click Here\!  
———————————————  
How I made N13 million in 2013. Click Here for full story. 

—————————————-

5 Nigerian Foods That Burn Stomach Fat.

————————————–

100% Scholarships Abroad & Tuition Free Universities for Nigerian Students

—————————————–

You too Can Start importation with N10,450. Click Here for FREE info

——————————————

Print all recharge cards with the latest GSM machine. Click now\!

——————————————-

How to Pocket Lots of cash from football matches daily\! Click Here\!

—————————————-

How to Earn N150,000 monthly with zero start up capital. Click Here\!

### One Comment

  1. Sam February 7, 2014 at 5:24 am \- Reply

Are YOU in need of GENUINE EMPTY PLOTS OF LAND at Mgbakwu, Awka North L.G.A., Anambra State? Are YOU an IGBO man or woman in need of land to build your own house? If YES, this is your final bus/stop. I have plots of land at 350,000 per plot inside Mgbakwu town. Call 08039440753 or 08024518395 today.




### Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked \*

Name \* Email \* Website

Comment

### Quick Search

### NBSIF2013

### Recent Posts

  * Ikeja bombs disaster: Let FG learn from Fashola
  * Sosoliso plane crash drove me into politics
  * Umar Manko : My best and worst moments in the police
  * Ken Imasuagbon: Rousing welcome for the Rice Man
  * My quarrel with 2014 budget –Danjuma Goje
  * Woman tortures stepson, 12, to death
  * Boy, 8, abducted from church, dies in kidnappers’ den
  * Nzam: Anambra’s most neglected community
  * 2015 Presidency: Beg Buhari to run, Tony Momoh tells Nigerians
  * Expect surprise World Cup inclusions – Green



### E-Paper

### Premium Ads

  * Over 200 Nigerian importers/manufacturers looking for distributors/partners. Click
  * 20 lucrative businesses to start with little or no money
  * Infertility & Pregnancy Solution Using Indian Therapies/Supplements. Try it today
  * Live, Study, Work & Immigrate to Canada Legally – Guaranteed Guide Here\!
  * Struggling to get pregnant? Discover Chinese natural male/female infertility solutions
  * Join 19 others to earn N200,000 monthly from importation business. Click Here\!
  * PROOFS\! How Ex-primary School Teacher Gets N203,700 for 20 days online work
  * Travel With Us To China, Import Cheap Products. Get Your Visa. Click Here
  * 8 Profitable Businesses You can Start Today to Make You Rich\!
  * Register .NG domains. Get 1year free hosting from UpperLink Registrar
  * Get 2yrs American Visa with less than 100k without an agent



### Popular Posts

  * Four men in trouble 12 comment\(s\) | 12296 view\(s\)
  * Mother of 5 raped to death 7 comment\(s\) | 6265 view\(s\)
  * Referee who sent off Ronaldo banned 1 comment\(s\) | 5891 view\(s\)
  * Security man defiles 3-year-old girl in Port Harcourt 4 comment\(s\) | 5439 view\(s\)



\*

### Archive

February 2014 M T W T F S S  
« Jan      
 12  
3456789  
10111213141516  
17181920212223  
2425262728    
  
### Do You Think Nelson Mandela is the Greatest African Ever?

Take Our Poll

### Subscribe to our Newsletter

### Enquiries

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.  
Call Uche on +234-805-633-4351, or email:  
onlinerate@sunnewsonline  
OR atuma@outgun.com

Copyright © 2012 - The Sun News. - Voice of The Nation.

Powered by Zero-One
