  * Opinion
  * About Us
  * Contact Us
  * Careers
  * Advert Rates
  * Play Games



Tuesday, May 3, 2016 

Menu

  * Home
  * News
    * Headline Stories
    * Top News
    * More News
    * Foreign
  * \#PanamaPapers
  * Investigations
  * Business
    * News Reports
    * Analysis and Data
    * Interviews and Profiles
    * Opinion
  * Arts/Life
    * Arts/Books
    * Kannywood
    * Lifestyle
    * Music
    * Nollywood
    * Travel
  * Sports
  * Oil/Gas Reports
    * FAAC Reports
    * Revenue
  * AGAHRIN
  * Parliament Watch
  * Letters



## Army begins large-scale operation in Sambisa forests — Commander

May 2, 2016Premium Times

### Related News

The Nigerian Army said on Sunday that it had commenced large-scale operations to smoke out Boko Haram terrorists from their Sambisa forest hideout in Borno.

Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor, the Theater Commander Operation Lafiya Dole said this while briefing newsmen in Maiduguri.

“I want to inform you that troops of the Operation Lafiya Dole are conducting operations in the heart of Sambisa as we speak.

“The troops are deep into the forest to smoke out Boko Haram terrorists,” Mr. Irabor said.

He said the troops were led by the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 7 division of the Nigerian Army Maiduguri Brig.-Gen. Victor Ezugwu.

“In fact the GOC 7 division is leading the operations,” Mr. Irabor said declining to give further details.

He said that the troops had also recorded tremendous successes against the terrorists in the last couple of days.

“Following a tip-off, troops intercepted four female suicide bombers approaching from Sambisa in the general area of Jimini-Bolari village. Two unexploded Improvised Explosive Devices on the suicide bombers were safely detonated by our own team.

“Also, a suspected terrorists training camp at Mudallah llage in Dikwa Local Government Area was raided by troops on April 16.

“Consequently, troops made contact and killed a suspected terrorists leader and six others while capturing five of them, during the raid, five vehicles and several terrorists flags were destroyed.”

Mr. Irabor said that the troops also rescued over 1,000 civilians held captive by the terrorists.

He said on April 3, troops also launched a fighting patrol to Boboshe, Garna, Kyare, Ginba and Ajiri villages where they recovered eight industrial gas cylinders and five regular gas cylinders, being used in bomb making, at a primary school.

He said during the operation three terrorists were captured while four motor cycles, three bicycles, a solar panel and two containers of liquid herbicides were destroyed.

In another operation on April 28 troops in the general area of Bogoro, Duguno 1, 2 and 3 encountered and cleared some terrorists elements around Mmbaraka.

“The troops proceeded to Jadda village where they engaged and killed four terrorists. The patrol team also discovered a big pit where the terrorists used for dumping their victims to die and rot.

“The patrol team later freed some hostages and recovered an AK-47 rifle, 30 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, 12 rounds of 7.62mm \(NATO\) ammunition, 14 Dane guns, a motorcycle, two solar panels, 120 liters of diesel, some packets of panadol and a food storage facility.

“During the operation, one of the troops suffered gunshot wound and was evacuated for medical treatment. I am glad to state that he is in stable condition and responding to treatment,” Mr. Irabor said.\(NAN\)

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


### SHARING

  *   *   * Tweet
  * Email
  * Print
  * More
  * 


  * Share on Tumblr
  *   *   *   * Pocket

  *   * Press This
  *   *   *   * 


All rights reserved. This material and any other material on this platform may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, written or distributed in full or in part, without written permission from PREMIUM TIMES.

* * *

Text Ad:Before Now My Husband Had a Small Manhood and Could not Last More than 2 Minutes, now the story has changed. Click here to read our testimony.

* * *

### More in More News

  * ###  Nigerian troops rescue 80-year-old man from Boko Haram 

  * ###  President Paul Biya of Cameroon to visit Nigeria Tuesday 

  * ###  Boko Haram terrorists now hide in foxholes – Army spokesman 

  * ###  World Bank to disclose more information on spending of Abacha loot 

  * ###  Speaker Dogara invites ministers to debates on economic diversification 

  * ###  Labour urges Nigerian government to set up committee on minimum wage 




### Top News

  * ###  Five feared dead as Customs, smugglers clash in Ogun 

  * ###  Nigeria Police recruitment applications rise to 843,008 

  * ###  10 Top Quotable Quotes of The Week 




  * favourtalk

God will continue to bless and support you guys as you are free in to bring peace and unity back to Nigeria and PMB for continuous support 

  * kumi

Una see how this northern are destroying Nigeria boronu state governor and northern elders will not say that buhari is using the Igbo people in Nigeria army to fight against them as they did during gej time this people are cows

    * Dan Minister

Continue with your hatred against the northerners as I always said, while the very people you hate they continue to prosper and world at large. And for your information this regime is gonna succeed by his grace and there’s nothing you can do about it

      * Burbank

Amen

    * Burbank

And your new boss of the PDP is the Boko Haram jihadist sponsor – Ali Modu Sheriff\!

  * George\_USA

Kudos to our brave army for a job well done. Our support for these brave Nigerians is unmitigated. The same support Buhari and Arewa Elders denied them during GEJ administration for cheap political gains.

  * OMOLOYIN

Kudos to our brave army. May God continue to guide and protect you. Boko haram’s end is here\!

  * ita ekpo

Please point of correction with the logo if its to be announced. It should be said nigeria Islamic army are going back to sambisa forest to complete their mission.

  * Burbank

May God protect the Nigerian military in their sacred duty to defend the nation.  
Bravo to the military for helping to secure the lives of Nigerians.




### Search Our Stories

### 

### Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.

Join 10,507 other subscribers

Email Address 

### Podcasts

* * *

* * *

### LETTERS

  * LETTER: ‘UNILAG graduate with 5.00 CGPA deserves national honour’

  * LETTER: ‘Buhari lied, Sokoto has no Federal Permanent Secretary’

  * T.B Joshua releases alarming 2016 predictions


﻿ 

#### Classified Ads

  * Our Digital Network
    * Election Centre
    * Human Trafficking Investigation
    * Centre for Investigative Journalism
    * National Conference
  * About Us
    * Advert Rates
    * Our Reporters/Writers
    * Contact Us



All content is Copyrighted © 2016 The Premium Times, Nigeria.

Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel

Post was not sent - check your email addresses\! 

Email check failed, please try again 

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. 
