Skip to content

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Search for:

Wednesday 30 March

Wednesday 30 March

Follow @vanguardngrnews

## Vanguard News

A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc

Search for:

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Sports
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
    * Motoring
  * Entertainment
  * Allure
    * Features
    * Fashion
    * Fablist
    * Wine & Spirits
  * Editorial
  * Viewpoint
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Tonye Princewill
    * Crisp Shots
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * My World
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Nigeria Today
    * Vista Woman
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith
  * Relationships



More

Breaking News

Translate

# Army captures Alagarno, Boko Haram \`spiritual power base’

On March 30, 20169:39 amIn News by AbiodunComments

The Nigerian Army said on Tuesday that it had captured Alagarno, the \`spiritual power base’ of the Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East.

Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor, the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, stated this while briefing newsmen in Maiduguri.  
“On March 18, at about 0900 hrs, troops of 3 and 7 Divisions commenced advance to capture Alagarno, with a preparatory air bombardment by Nigeria Air Force \(NAF\), advance was halted severally due to planted Improvised Explosive Devises \(IED\) along the routes leading to Alagarno.

“During the operations, troops cleared Yajiwa, Joba, Mosa and other villages. Our gallant troops finally entered Alagarno on March 28, during which several Boko Haram terrorists were killed along the route.  
“This operation demystified the Boko Haram terrorist spiritual power base in Alagarno.

“Throughout the operation, the NAF monitored the operation, consistently resupplied the advancing troops as well as assisted in evacuating soldiers that were wounded in action.”  
Irabor recalled that in February the Nigerian Army troops captured Kumshe.

“On Feb. 23, at about 0740 hrs, own troops in conjunction with Cameroonian forces commenced advance to clear and capture Kumshe.  
“ Twenty Boko Haram terrorists were killed, while equipment captured include one gun truck mounted with anti-aircraft gun, 2 AK 47 rifles as well as 60 mm mortar,” he said.

Irabor also said that on March 23, troops advanced to clear, capture and hold Kala-Balge Local Government Area and the entire areas.  
“In the process, pockets of insurgents in Wumbi, Tunish and Tilem villages were cleared. The Boko Haram training camp at Tilem was destroyed.”

According to him, the terrorists suffered heavy causalities, while 567 civilian hostages were freed from the terrorists’ enclave.

“Troops are currently conducting clearing operations in the general area to destroy remnants of the terrorists still operating in Kala Balge,” he said.  
Itabor recalled that motorcycles were inducted into the operation and launched by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. –Gen. Tukur Buratai on Feb 27, at Damboa.

“ The Motor Cycle Battalion has been very useful in areas of road piquetting and for patrols among other tasks.’’  
He said that troops in the Theatre have also been conducting clearing operations on a daily basis, and also listed the areas the operations were carried out.

“Troops of 81 Task Force Battalion cleared and destroyed Boko Haram terrorists camps at Komala, Dole, Kumasi and Maudori villages around the fringes of Alagarno.

“Some insurgents were killed while two were arrested. In addition, two BHT Toyota pick-up vehicles, 40 motorcycles and fuel dumps were destroyed,” Irabor added.

## Abiodun

View all posts by Abiodun →

Previous Post

#### PDP BOT advises Sheriff not to elongate his 3 months tenure

Next Post

#### Nigeria’s AFCON ouster painful — Chukwu, Erico, others

  


## Disclaimer

Comments expressed here do not reflect the opinions of vanguard newspapers or any employee thereof. 

## Latest News

  * 10:31 pmRoundtable Conference: Women in governance; the journey so far

  * 10:27 pmImperative of Gender Equality for National Development

  * 10:19 pmSpa pros and cons

  * 10:17 pmWith Sandra and Child, 3,000 children have access to education — Sandra, Miss Globe

  * 10:14 pmDoes the machine do the job?

  * 9:54 pmCuper praises Eagles

  * 9:47 pmDTHA not after anyone —Majority Leader

  * 9:47 pmI’m proud to be Egypt’s coach – Cuper

  * 9:46 pmMicrosoft outlines intelligence vision, unveils new innovations for Windows 10

  * 9:32 pmSamsung, Skool Media, Ministry of Education partner to digitalize classrooms

  * 9:16 pmPolice trouble: Sergeant dies during romp with Corporal’s wife

  * 9:16 pmCourt of Appeal rules in favour of Honeywell

  * 9:00 pmAisha Buhari donates relief materials to Agatu crisis’ victims

  * 8:54 pmIgnore pressure to devalue naira, AANI tells Buhari

  * 8:50 pm40% of Nigerians hypertensive —Cardiologist

  * 8:29 pm‘Your cornea could help restore someone’s sight’

  * 8:22 pmNSCDC deploys 5,000 personnel to North-East — Commandant-General


View All

## Sponsored

  * ## UNICAF’s 2016 Scholarship Programme With Even More Master Degrees Now Available\!

UNICAF has partnered with the University of South Wales, UK to offer more opportunities to students from Africa. The new...

Read More

  * ## Buy Lekki Plots and Save 1m Today

Read More

  * ## Even Bodybuilders Get A Helping Hand

Read More




## Editorial

  * ## The bad example from Rivers

THE run-up to the federal and state legislative election re-runs in Rivers State had been marked with much bloodshed run...

Read More

  * ## Power scarcity, fuel scarcity

Read More




## Cartoons

  * ## Locked up

Locked up




## Most Commented

  * FG working hard to relieve Nigerians' pains - Lai Mohammed534
  * Ask Buhari to release me from prison, Kanu begs UK Govt309
  * Fayose's lawmakers flee Ekiti State to avoid arrest by police289
  * Police trouble: Sergeant dies during romp with Corporal’s wife41
  * Buhari's silence on Fulani herdsmen attacks dangerous89



## E-editions

## For Crying Out Loud

  * ## “The Horror\! The Horror\!” till the Rivers of blood all run dry

THE horror\! The horror\!” so might Kurtz, Joseph Conrad’s fictional character, have cried were he to come out of the page...

Read More




## Talking Point

  * ## Kachikwu’s verbal gaffe

IBE Kachikwu, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources and Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petrole...

Read More




## Owei Lakemfa

  * ## Share the votes not the bullets

THE Rivers State electoral re-run was not an election; it was war and the generals on both sides lived up to the billing...

Read More




## Broken Links

  * ## Inflation, No 1 enemy of Nigerians in 2016

The National Assembly last Wednesday passed the 2016 budget for the President to sign into law. After the President’s en...

Read More




## Tip of a New Dawn

  * ## To end corruption in Nigeria, end nepotism

Quite a few people requested “further reading” after last week’s article. I recommend To Kill a Mockingbird, by Pulitzer...

Read More




## Tip of a New Dawn

  * ## To end corruption in Nigeria, end nepotism

Quite a few people requested “further reading” after last week’s article. I recommend To Kill a Mockingbird, by Pulitzer...

Read More




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance and You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall



## Life Style

  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is It Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



## Columns

  * Monday
    * Sport Bassey
    * People And Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Sobowale on Business
    * Broken Links
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Tuesday
    * Femi Aribisala
    * Dispatches from America



  * Wednesday
    * Talking Point
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * Tip of a New Dawn
  * Thursday
    * People Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub



  * Friday
    * Sweet Sour
    * Lipstick
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Saturday
    * The Passing Scene
    * My World
    * Frank & Fair
    * Marriage & Family
    * Oil & Gas Summiteer
    * Bits & Pieces



  * Sunday
    * Frankly Speaking
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Nigeria Today
    * The Orbit
    * Outside Looking In
    * Joyful Homes
    * Article of Faith



* * *

© 2016 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us


