Skip to content

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Search for:

Wednesday 02 November

Wednesday 02 November

Follow @vanguardngrnews

## Vanguard News

A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc

Search for:

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Sports
  * Politics
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
    * Motoring
  * Entertainment
  * Allure
  * Editorial
  * Viewpoint
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Tonye Princewill
    * Crisp Shots
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * My World
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Nigeria Today
    * Vista Woman
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith
  * Relationships



More

Breaking News

Translate

Home » News » GOC 82 Div. solicits cooperation of security agencies

# GOC 82 Div. solicits cooperation of security agencies

On October 28, 20168:49 pmIn News by OkogbaComments

Chimaobi Nwaiwu, Nnewi.

The General Officer Commanding, 82 Division of Nigerian Army Enugu, Maj.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru has called on security agencies in the country to cooperate with each other to effectively combat the myriads of security challenges facing Nigeria.

Maj.-Gen Attahiru said this in his opening speech during a training organized by the Army Headquarters for 44 Division Engineers Officers and Senior Non-Commissioned Officers held at 302 Artillary Regiment, \(General Support\) Onitsha, Anambra State.

“There is need for synergy among security agencies to effectively combat the myriad of security challenges facing the country, such synergy will encourage innovations in tackling the challenges of asymmetric warfare engaged by militants, insurgents, armed robbers and kidnappers.”

Maj. Gen. Attahiru who was represented by Brig.-Gen Olufemi Akinjobi at the training which has its theme as “Enhancing Capacity for Asymmetric Warfare” explained that “the training would rejuvenate personnel professional standards to confront contemporary security challenges of asymmetric warfare.”

“Similar training had resulted in the optimal performance of the “Dragon Engineers” during the Exercise Crocodile Smile recently, and other similar operations in the country.”

The Deputy Chief of Staff, Training and Operations, 82 Division of the Nigeria Army, Col. Chris Ataki, in a lecture entitled “Asymmetric Warfare in Nigeria: Challenges and way forward” said that the Nigeria Army still faced some asymmetric warfare challenges.

Col. Ataki, listed the challenges as lack of clear policy on boarder security and poor standard of training, manpower constraints, inadequate plants and equipment, inadequate capacity, weak research and development base and inadequate intelligence.

He however, suggested the formulation of policy on boarder security by the Ministry of Defense and other security agencies to mitigate the challenges of porous border security.

“There must also be available incentives for researchers to improve on research and development, just as there is need for improved training for troops on best global practices on countering asymmetric warfare, also improved fund for the Nigeria Army necessary.

“We also advocate for improved technology for the army especially in the use of drones, access control, hacking and use of robots to dismantle Improvised Explosive Devices, IED’s, these will not only build the confidence of the soldiers but give the confidence that they can defeat insurgents and terrorists.”

The Anambra State Director of Department of State Services, DSS, Mr. Yusuf Isyaku, who was represented by Mrs Chioma Anyanwu, said insufficient funding for conduct of intelligence operations was a major challenge of the agency.

“Other challenges include under-assessment of situation/security problem and over-assessment caused by exaggerated information, deception and lack of skill by assessors, he delivered a lecture entitled “Asymmetric Warfare: Intelligence as a Critical Operation Enabler”.

Earlier, in a welcome address, the Commander 44 Division Engineers, Enugu, Brig.-Gen. Philip Eromosele, expressed confidence that the training would enhance personnel’s understanding of asymmetric warfare and response to disaster management.

## Okogba

View all posts by Okogba →

Previous Post

#### Video: Dramatic moment sympathizers tried to lift fallen bus to rescue trapped passengers

Next Post

#### I was not suspended, says Abbah Kyari, Buhari’s Chief of Staff

  


## Disclaimer

Comments expressed here do not reflect the opinions of vanguard newspapers or any employee thereof. 

## Latest News

  * 2:45 pmMother, 5 others die in Okene, after eating ‘Amala’

  * 2:40 pmSamsung Note 7 working well in Nigeria?

  * 2:36 pmYuletide: Beware, fake wines, gins have flooded the markets, NAFDAC warns

  * 2:33 pmOil bandits/contractors’ syndicate attacks Trans – Forcados trunk line in Delta

  * 2:15 pmCatholic female priests a ban forever, irrevocable, Says Pope Francis

  * 2:06 pmBobrisky, ‘Africa’s Male Barbie’ dominates Google trend

  * 1:58 pmU.S. Election: Clinton suspects FBI

  * 1:54 pmAbia CJ, Attorney-General clash over official residence

  * 1:47 pm\#BuhariFreeZakzaky protest turns awry in Abuja

  * 1:37 pmDon’t sell our state to Northerners – Group warn Jimoh

  * 1:36 pmSenate threatens to suspend plenary if INEC fails to conduct elections in Rivers by December 10

  * 1:33 pmMore protest trails DSS’ clampdown on judges in Lagos

  * 1:16 pmBreaking: Senate threatens to suspend plenary over delayed re-runs

  * 1:15 pmJustin Timberlake speaks on new powerful album

  * 1:07 pmMariah Carey would’ve had $50m in pre-nuptial agreement, marriage

  * 12:53 pmBeverley Knight collapsed on stage

  * 12:42 pmSaudi in rare flogging of prince


View All

## Sponsored

  * ## Recession or Not, Upgrade your properties this Christmas with Emilinks premium quality doors at unbeatable prices\!

In Nigeria of today, the prices of virtually everything has increased, but thanks to Emilinks Limited \(global\), Nigeria’...

  * ## S3XUAL ISSUES AND SOLUTIONS TRUE FACTS ABOUT THE P3NIS II

  * ## BIG NEWS FROM ECOBANK




## Editorial

  * ## Buhari’s proposed $30 billion loan

LAST week, President Muhammadu Buhari shocked a lot of economic and financial experts by asking the National Assembly \(N...

  * ## Getting serious about Made-In-Nigeria




## Cartoons

  * ## Body work




## Most Commented

  * Man, 40, impregnates 15-yr-old step-daughter in Ogun170
  * Buhari to Niger Delta militants: You can leave Nigeria if you 've another country122
  * Niger Delta leaders to Buhari: We want oil blocs306
  * Runaway Wife: Bride jilts groom at wedding reception112
  * Dasukigate: Goodluck Jonathan ready to appear in court331
  * Presidency reacts to Senate's rejection of Buhari's plan to borrow $30bn130
  * 1500 workers to lose jobs as Erisco foods relocate to China36



## Videos

  * ## Watch: Messi scores sensational counter-attack

Leo Messi’s sensational counter-attack GIF: Leo Messi’s goal. Sensational counter-attack. pic.twitter.com/Vu...

Read More




## E-editions

## polls update 2016

  * ## POLL: What is your take on DSS ‘sting’ on judges ?

What is your take on DSS ‘sting’ on judges ? Loading…

Read More




## People & Politics

  * ## $30b loan: It’s equity or no deal

PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari’s plan to borrow $30 billion foreign loan has been unveiled, and will soon be tabled before t...

Read More




## Tip of a New Dawn

  * ## Do Nigerians really want change?

The question must be asked, again and again. We are a people whose collective psyche has been battered by all manner of...

Read More




## Talking Point

  * ## The NJC and NBA in the fight against corruption

WHEN recently the Department of State Security, DSS, arrested seven very senior judges, including Justice John Okoro, an...

Read More




## Candid Notes

  * ## Disinherited in our years of change?

Lagos is the most populous city in Nigeria and the seventh fastest growing city in the world

Read More




## Rational Perspectives

  * ## Is petrol still subsidized?

THE Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, informed newsmen in Abuja, on 17 December, 2015, that the Federal...

Read More




## Patrick Dele Cole

  * ## Lagos @ 50: A conversation and matters arising

I AM going to engage you in a conversation about Lagos in 1861 and matter arising therefrom as the history of Lagos cont...

Read More




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance and You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall



## Life Style

  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is It Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



## Columns

  * Monday
    * Sport Bassey
    * People And Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Sobowale on Business
    * Broken Links
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Tuesday
    * Femi Aribisala
    * Dispatches from America



  * Wednesday
    * Talking Point
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * Tip of a New Dawn
  * Thursday
    * People Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub



  * Friday
    * Sweet Sour
    * Lipstick
    * Owei Lakemfa
  * Saturday
    * The Passing Scene
    * My World
    * Frank & Fair
    * Marriage & Family
    * Oil & Gas Summiteer
    * Bits & Pieces



  * Sunday
    * Frankly Speaking
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Nigeria Today
    * The Orbit
    * Outside Looking In
    * Joyful Homes
    * Article of Faith



* * *

© 2016 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us


