Breaking

  * Bill Cosby admitted to getting drugs to give to women
  * Suicide Bomber Kill 21 in Zaria blast
  * Banks’ credit to domestic economy drops by 0.3% to N20bn
  * Money laundering: US, CBN to tackle foreign currency traffickers
  * VCs VERSUS ASUU
  * Flaws in National Health Insurance Scheme
  * DISCHARGED AND ACQUITTED
  * 44 students renounce cultism at UNIZIK
  * Jega’s exit and the uncertainty in INEC
  * Why we should not stampede Buhari



  * RSS
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Google+
  * LinkedIn



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Paper Ad Rate
  * Online Ad Rates
  * Contact Us



Navigate

  * National
  * Politics
  * Business
  * Sports
  * Editorial
  * Entertainment
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Columns
    * Broken Tongues
    * Capital Matters
    * Duro Onabule
    * Femi Adesina
    * FrankTalk
    * Funke Egbemode
    * Insights
    * Kalu Leadership Series
    * Offside Musings
    * PressClips
    * Public Sphere
    * Ralph Egbu
    * Sideview
    * The Flipside – Eric Osagie
    * Turf Game
    * Views from Abroad
    * Diabetes Corner



You are at:Home»National»GOC to soldiers: Shoot Ondo poll troublemakers

#  GOC to soldiers: Shoot Ondo poll troublemakers 

87

By Our Reporter on  October 19, 2012 National

From TUNDE RAHEEM, Akure

The General Officer Commanding 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Major Gen. Mohammed Abubakar, yesterday ordered the soldiers to shoot any troublemaker who resists arrest in tomorrow’s governorship election in Ondo State.

The GOC warned anybody who might want to foment trouble during the election to think twice, adding that the soldiers would not condone any act of hooliganism during and after the election.

The army boss, who arrived the 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure yesterday to address the men and officers to be deployed for the poll, said nobody would be allowed to carry arms to the polling station, while directing them to arrest anybody who violated the order.

Abubakar said: “No movement on that day, except for those on essential duties and those on election duty.

“No hunting on the election day. I am happy that the IGP has said that there would be no fishing during the poll.

“I don’t want to hear that I am going to the bush to hunt.

“Anybody with arm must be arrested.

“If he resists arrest, shoot him, I give you the order.”

Abubakar said movement would be restricted from 6am to pm, but he explained that motorists traveling across the state to other parts of the country would be allowed passage, after they must have proved that they are not going into the state.

The GOC said he had received a petition from a political party he declined to mention that one of the contestants had bribed some soldiers to allow his party to rig during the election.

Abubakar said he was not a party to that, while warning any soldier who is a member of any political party to say it.

He stated that any soldier found colluding with any party would be severely dealt with.

He said: “No amount of money they promise you will turn you to Abiola or Dangote.

“These people worked for their money. So be satisfied with what the Nigerian Army is giving you.”

He said there would be dress code for the troops, adding it would be easy for real soldiers to identify fake ones.

The GOC declined to give the number of soldiers deployed to monitor the election, but said soldiers were moved to Ondo State from different formations to maintain law and order during the election.

23 yrs boy started importation with N10,450. Read his story here\! 

Six weeks ago, I couldn't perform in bed. Here's my breakthrough

How to start a profitable importation biz with as low as N10,000 only

How Adetunji generated over N20 million online in 2014. Almost N2m in 2015 

How to earn 40k-200k monthly from football matches almost on autopilot

3 Things I did to cure premature ejaculation after my wife left me

How to get flat belly in just 9 days. Click here\!

Small manhood and premature ejaculation limited my performance for 4yrs\!

Discover How I made N2m in 35 days from importation business

7 Simple yet amazing steps to earn over N200,000/monthly. Click here

Free Download\! How to earn N200,000 monthly from importation business

Discover how I made N58000 in two weeks reselling bulksms to Nigerian companies

Click here now if you are interested in earning at least N7,500/daily 

Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email

### About Author

Our Reporter




### Related Posts

  * July 7, 2015  1

## A walk against drugs

  * July 7, 2015  3

## Military releases 182 Boko Haram detainees in Borno

  * July 7, 2015  0

## FRSC, firm salute The Sun MD




###  87 Comments 

  1. De zuma on  October 19, 2012 1:55 am

Shoot? Are we in Military Regime\!Well Mimiko for life\!

Reply 

    * ifeoma on  October 19, 2012 6:59 am

arrest them please dont shoot.

Satisfy your wife with REVIVE \# it boost sexual performance \# it increase libido \# it remove waist pain \# it increase blood flow \# it promotes stamina \# it fight against weak erection \# it fight against impotency and is NAFDAC registered. call IFEOMA now on zero 8 zero 33439491, zero 8 zero 33290651. Can be delivered any where in Nigeria within 24 Hours.

Reply 

    * chuks on  October 19, 2012 7:17 pm

I’m deeply sorry for this country.How can a major general of nigerian army publicly pass this death sentence against nigerian people without consequences ?Troublemakers should be arrested, charged to court and confronted with the law of the land and if found guilty sentenced accordingly.This is the first step in nation building;the rule of law.

Reply 

  2. Big Bros on  October 19, 2012 2:14 am

Praying for violence- and rigging-free Election in Ondo, come Saturday. No blood shed pls\!

Reply 

  3. Big Bros on  October 19, 2012 2:15 am

Hi friends, just want to introduce you to a site where you can make N1,500 continuously directly to your Bank A/C, for each person you invite to NETCONTACTS. This is REAL, and not scam. You can make a research about it ur self. Asking Google i.e\(is netcontacts scam?\) can also assist u. Just register for free with the free trial first, u can later activate ur account to full member with the sum of N1,500. Note that all the people u invite will also be paying you N1,500 b4 you can activate them\!\! Imaging you invite 100 people or more, that will be \(100×1500=150k or more \) I must tell u, I am happy with it, but you cannot join d site except u are invited by an activated member \(full member\), so, if u are asked for an invitational code just put 20701283 as ur invitational code. Try it out first before u critisize it. I can assure its damn real. I could not believe it also until I tried it. For direct registration page click or copy to your address bar; http://www.netcontacts.com.ng/invitation/?invitationcode=20701283 For more info contact me on 08064531593. For Nigerians only.

Reply 

  4. symphatiser on  October 19, 2012 3:07 am

“shoot troublemakers”, that statement itself is an act of hooliganism, i wonder why a whole GOC can order his men to shoot whoever makes trouble or resist arrest in a democracratic society, i beg that so called GOC should be summarily dismissed from the army and courtmarshalled for that careless and reckless order.

Reply 

    * Godfrey on  October 19, 2012 12:30 pm

GOC,  
Thank you\! To be for warned is to be for- armed\!

Ondo state election should go free and fair. Trouble makers should respect the popular wish of the people.

Oga GOC, you have warned them ahead\!  
Thank you.

Reply 

  5. tangara lanson on  October 19, 2012 3:08 am

In a civilized society, the contestant proposing to bribe would be disqualified and disgraced but our society just pat him at the back.  
Also,the lady that was disgraced for stealing was very unfortunate, how come nobody disgraced our oil minister that way Third world country..

Reply 

  6. Godwin on  October 19, 2012 3:11 am

Big Bros why can,t you pay 30,000 naira for Sunnews Online Adv. stop fooling Your Self Have A Nice Day

Reply 

  7. Sam on  October 19, 2012 3:20 am

Academy\! Something like that.

Reply 

  8. Bernard Akpan on  October 19, 2012 3:28 am

Let’s jst be prayin 4 de election come sat.

Reply 

  9. ik on  October 19, 2012 4:38 am

The goc spoke well

Reply 

  10. francis ekene on  October 19, 2012 4:43 am

GOS,this man must be mentally derange, how cud he give such orders to hooligans like soldiers to shoot pp if they resist arrest,so life is no longer important or is there nolonger any other means than to shoot,we are not in military regim where they give such orders like bury him alive,silence him,butcher him etc.GOS, u beter withdraw dat orders u are not mr.president.

Reply 

    * fredrick christopher on  October 19, 2012 11:40 am

Wat ar u? idiot or bastard u hav d mind 2 called soldiers holigans, i think u ar d on dat is thinkin of bad tinz u will do n go free, but u can try ur native doctor not solders or else u go 2 where u belong.

Reply 

    * mii on  October 19, 2012 7:52 pm

Honestly, you an idiot, you don’t have respect for your elders. How can you say that the GOC is mentally deranged. Well try the order and see whether you will be alive to tell the story. Do you know the meaning of GOC? General Officer Commanding. If you are a trouble maker try the soldiers tomorrow and see whether the constitution will protect you. Idot

Reply 

  11. Hassan Adamu Adamu on  October 19, 2012 4:56 am

Can any some one who appointed this GOC call him to order before soldiers will start to kill people. Has he forgotten we are in democracy?. Let him order his to go and finish boko haram for us, instead of innocent people he suppose to protect.

Reply 

  12. nwanix on  October 19, 2012 5:06 am

well, d GOC meant well for d election.

Reply 

  13. JAMES E on  October 19, 2012 5:54 am

Pls Mr Francis what would u do to a man that carries arms, you tell him to drop it but he refuses?.To shoot does not mean to kill, i believe the GOC mean shoot to disarm .Also why are you afraid? The guilty are afraid.

Reply 

  14. festus on  October 19, 2012 6:27 am

luk @ dis GOC,are u in a war front?  
go and fight bokoharam b4 given order 2 killing innocent peoples

Reply 

  15. Ndu on  October 19, 2012 6:38 am

In real, that shooting orders is just to make people not 2 cause WAHALA.

Reply 

  16. yakubu shedrack on  October 19, 2012 6:48 am

Ondo state,come out like never b4 and vote 4 the man u feel is the best 4 the state. I which u people peaceful election.

Reply 

  17. Bright on  October 19, 2012 6:52 am

Let every citizen obey the last order; but soldiers should not be too draconic in their order

Reply 

  18. ifeoma on  October 19, 2012 6:55 am

Satisfy your wife with REVIVE \# it boost sexual performance \# it increase libido \# it remove waist pain \# it increase blood flow \# it promotes stamina \# it fight against weak erection \# it fight against impotency and is NAFDAC registered. call IFEOMA now on zero 8 zero 33439491, zero 8 zero 33290651. Can be delivered any where in Nigeria within 24 Hours.

Reply 

  19. obino1010 on  October 19, 2012 7:00 am

Oga GOC if anybody is shot on that election day. You and those boys of yours will join the aluu suspects for trial. We are not in a war front. Please measure your statements.

Reply 

  20. Okuka Emeka on  October 19, 2012 7:02 am

GOC\! you order your boys to shoot ondo political troublemakers, what about your boko haram brothers in the Northern Nigerian.Why not send your boys to shoot them.

Reply 

  21. bigone on  October 19, 2012 7:14 am

I’m not sure the hoc is feeling well,he is absolutely sick in his mind he talks like a mad man, imagine u have this goc As our president the country is finished,people should stay in their houses because some soldiers will certainly shoot and say it was because they saw trouble, which might not be true

Reply 

  22. kizito on  October 19, 2012 7:41 am

mr goc pls ondo is nt a terrorist state. if we start shootin trouble makers am sure u will be d first to be shoot’ cos u words ar life taking. pls send dis men to ur state bokos ar dey shoot or bomb dem even. God pls protect ondo

Reply 

  23. chibuike on  October 19, 2012 7:52 am

useless GOC, u think this is military regime where you kill without been questioned.how many have you shot\(Bh\) in the north where you came from. “he who kill by the gun will die by the gun”.

Reply 

  24. ken on  October 19, 2012 7:54 am

Goc, how can you give such order to shoot people like they are not human beings.This is the problem with giving people power in Nigeria .It gets over their head .arrest them unless the people points their guns at the soldiers .This reminds me why my two sons who visits Nigeria every two years now refused to go this year because on occasions they witnessed police wanting to shoot up mini buses with passengers inside them if the driver dont give bribe them.theyintimidate everybody .

Reply 

  25. chris on  October 19, 2012 7:55 am

that is good comment, to avoid trouble.  
the ALMIGHTY GOD is already in control in Ondo State

Reply 

  26. ERNEST ANAXIMANDER on  October 19, 2012 8:33 am

that sounds good in the ears of people who are already flattened by ceaseless violence in the country. the implication of it is that the people are no longer contented with the pattern of diplomacy of the government in power. we might need to call in Thomas Hobbes to teach us the creation of the leviathan and John Locke to instill the cardinals of statehood

Reply 

  27. Tyona on  October 19, 2012 8:50 am

Chief GOC,

True talk\! What of the trouble makers in others parts of Nigeria killing even our respected soldiers. We need your words/actions to cover the nation.  
Good luck Ondo and Nigeria in general.

Reply 

  28. BELLO IDOWU on  October 19, 2012 9:17 am

GOC, I SUPPORT YOU, MY PEOPLE IN ONDO AND EKITI STATES ARE VERY STUBBORN AND NEEDS IRON HAND

Reply 

  29. Amobi on  October 19, 2012 9:39 am

This is a good comment from d GOC. To avoid being shot do not make trouble on Saturday. Nigeria will not afford another security problem from ONDO similar to d omoboriowo problem … We are trying to manage d ones already there…

Reply 

  30. Solomon Etukudo on  October 19, 2012 9:41 am

Mr Abubakar or Whatever u call yourself. You are a bastard Son of a Bitch, a Babboon and an Ancient fool. So the Ondo people are the Holligan that u can just ordered Ur fellow Barbaric Babboon soldiers to shoot and kill like that. Y did you forget to also tell the general public How much Bribe you collected to play Ur silly role of Mr Good GOC. My security Dog is far more better than you cause I’ll instruct the Dog never to bite during security alert hours and my mighty will never bite.

Reply 

    * Arise on  October 19, 2012 10:35 pm

@Solomon Etukudo, the abuses you heap on the GOC will rather go on your head. And your so-called dog mighty is in fact better than you, since you can’t even read and understand. Please next time read well, digest before commenting. The order is against those who carry ARMS during the polls and at the same time resist arrest. If you carry ARMS during a civic exercise like an election and expect soldiers to salute you, then you are dreaming. Let me even ask you – why will a civilian carry ARMS during an election; to use as walking stick? But here you are condemning an order meant to drive away the harbingers of death and destruction from our polling booths. Na wah for you o\!

Reply 

  31. anga sotonye on  October 19, 2012 9:42 am

In very simple language, the GOC is saying and giving a warning that no civilian, and this includes hunters and fishermen should carry arms during the Ondo election. At least this will bring sanity provided the police, army and other security agencies stay neutral and do their job as professionals. Nigerians are watching, the World is watching, Ondo election has become very important and engaging. However, by 20 October we will know who wears the crown. I recommend a beef up of security across Ondo State. When people are guaranteed safety and they see orderliness and transparency in the election process, things will go well and we will have a good outcome. There should be free use of recording video and camera without harassment. I wish Ondo well\!\! I wish all the candidates well\!\! GOD BLES NIGERIA\!\!

Reply 

  32. OSAMOR PAT IZU on  October 19, 2012 9:42 am

This is the tragedy of this country\! In war-torn Syria, UN observers were not armed. In Nigeria, a GOC orders soldiers to shoot troublemakers during elections. Please the Commander-in-chief should retire him NOW.

Reply 

  33. Carl on  October 19, 2012 9:45 am

We re been reduce 2 animalistic level where we need more guns and bullets 2 conducted jst an election.beast country

Reply 

  34. Nnamdi peter on  October 19, 2012 10:08 am

Nigerians that is good order, it is what nigerian need

Reply 

  35. SHAY on  October 19, 2012 10:35 am

The order given can not be carried out if the general public are well behaved. Go and vote and get back to your house full stop.

Reply 

  36. Norahs on  October 19, 2012 11:14 am

The GOC u must be crazy. Shoot who 4 wot reasons? Unless u provided ur boys with plastic bullets which i have neva seen used by any force in Nigeria. If anyone is shot both you and ur boy\(s\) involved will face d wrath of the law by being sentenced to death by firing squad

Reply 

  37. chisc0 on  October 19, 2012 11:38 am

I suppory “shay” comment

Reply 

  38. ABUBAKAR SADIQ UMARU on  October 19, 2012 11:40 am

IF THE WORD “SHOOT” COMES FROM A GOC THEN NIGERIA IS FINISHED.

Reply 

  39. Dozie on  October 19, 2012 11:41 am

This is the problem with Nigerian system…The military is allowed to do with the masses whatever they deem fit.that is wrong…and he say he is an Officer..am in the Army too and am disappointed by what the GOC said. I mean this is election not a war front.

Reply 

  40. id\(uk\) on  October 19, 2012 12:46 pm

Shoot\! What does this man mean by that? in this modern world an head of army is given order for shooting of ordinary civilian.For what? is this an order by the president or he is just acting on his own?. Agreed there could be some thugs sent by some selfish politicians to carry out evil acts, no doubt about that.But that not withstanding.The answer is simple get them arrested and try in the law court and if found guilty get appropriate punishment.

Reply 

  41. Donas on  October 19, 2012 1:08 pm

Ordering soldiers to shoot is not the best option in democracy.

Reply 

  42. Gidi Gidi on  October 19, 2012 1:10 pm

Mr. GOC you sound like a real Military Man in Election, but unfortunately Election is the primary duty of IGP not military, besides’ if you can sound like this in Election, what about the Boko Haram that has chased almost all Nigerians outside Nigerian and even in various Barracks? While waiting for your answer Sir, I still remind you that I saw a General been employed from USA into the country to combat terrorism after all foreign mission and training Nigerian has given the Army, Please Mr. GOC if I hear gun shot in Ondo tomorrow I file a suit against you in law court we are not in military.  
I recommend you for war not for civil matters.

Reply 

  43. omo odua on  October 19, 2012 1:16 pm

The general lacks finesse.He ought not to have given such an extreme order in public.It is the most reckless utterance from an officer of his status.

Reply 

  44. magege on  October 19, 2012 1:21 pm

If you don’t want to be humiliated,it is simple stay away from trouble and stop making stupid comments,the security officer in-charge of the state has spoken if you like go n fall victim if your name will not be sorry.

Reply 

  45. simple on  October 19, 2012 1:29 pm

GOC we are not in civil war front

Reply 

  46. peter balogun on  October 19, 2012 1:29 pm

I AM INDEED SURPRISED AT THE ORDER OF THE GOC. THIS IS LICENSE TO KILL AND SHOULD NOT BE TOLERATED IN A DEMOCRACY. NOWHERE SHOULD AN ARMED PERSON USE HIS ARM AGAINST AN UNARMED CIVILIAN EXCEPT HIS LIFE IS THREATENED. THE CHIEF OF ARMY STAFF SHOULD PLEASE CALL THIS SENIOR OFFICER TO ORDER. HIS ORDER IS WRONG AND UNACCEPTABLE.THE DAYS OF MILITARY GOVTS. ARE OVER. PARTY CHIEFS SHOULD CONDEMN THIS N O W.

Reply 

  47. Clems Igiligi on  October 19, 2012 1:33 pm

Mr GOC u too much, u are the type of leader we need, Nigeria need iron hand any troublemaker should be send to hell a word is enough for wise.

Reply 

  48. SELFA on  October 19, 2012 1:39 pm

ondo poll:God will do everything possible

Reply 

  49. Iyke on  October 19, 2012 1:44 pm

This statement might make some already trigger-happy soldiers to thank dia ‘god’ 20-times 4 free oppotunity to perfect dia normal act and send ‘innocent’ Nigerians to d world beyond….Pls sir, withdraw ur command…..Life is sacred\!\!\!\!\!

Reply 

  50. Felix. on  October 19, 2012 2:08 pm

Mr GOC thank you very much for giving the order publicly and not in secrete, those that have ears have heard. As for the myopic minded who wants to file a suit against the GOC, we shall meet in court. Tuale for u sir mr GOC.

Reply 

  51. austinchuks on  October 19, 2012 2:39 pm

Oga GOC pls kindly wethdraw ur reckless statement avoid regret later whn d crises hpnd,bcos some of these ur men are drug adit they might think dat d statemnt u made is too rigidy.although I visualised dat u made d statement inorder to scare ppl from violence,but some of these ur men are mental disorder they fit d shot reckless tomorrow thinking dat u wil bck them up.I pray let their be no causality tomorrow unless they want face full weight of d law.I wish ondo state free & transparent election,let them vote wisely inorder to uplift their state in a grater height.

Reply 

  52. kelvin on  October 19, 2012 3:22 pm

It is not enough for the GOC to order his men to shoot those contravening during the Ondo State election, But how well was this info disseminated to the electorate. I think with this unguided statement, many well meaning citizens of the state will prefer staying in doors during the election.

Reply 

  53. Owerri on  October 19, 2012 3:36 pm

Pls GOC, tell ur boys to arrest trouble makers. We re tired of incessant killing in Nigeria daily news, u too will be charged for crime against humanity. It,s quite clear that Tinubu has delployed so many area boys on ground from EKITI, OSUN, EDO, LAGOS including WARRI to foment troubles that will eventually upturn the result in ACN favour. Let,s only manage the one BOKO HARAM and the 3 million Igbos PAPA AWOLOWO killed 42 yrs ago.

Reply 

  54. Ume on  October 19, 2012 4:13 pm

Shoot those imported ACN thugs

Reply 

  55. Angel on  October 19, 2012 4:23 pm

To me the GOC is a politician…he just sold dummy to us..he does not mean it.He already told the army wat to do..not realy to shoot..just scared us away..But who ever that tries to force away gun from a soldier…SHOOT..

Reply 

  56. Kentro,USA on  October 19, 2012 4:29 pm

GOC u are a Bastard for ur statement, Why not order ur boys to shoot boko haram disturbing pple in the north,..U are a fool and should be shot in the brain..Idiot..may u die like a rat..Idiot .. U lack morals and common sense to be a GOC…Bastard GOC

Reply 

    * Mayor on  October 20, 2012 8:28 am

U dnt talk to a high ranking officer wid abuses lyk dat Mr. Man, GOC is securitywise mor inclined than Mr. President, he has all it takes to control watever coms-up in dis election. Dis pple ar stubborn n deadly, dey ar gud in killin security agent in a situation lyk dis just to achiev their selfish aim. D GOC cannot take chances havin known wat is @ stake.  
Our dea Sojas, God wil protect u all do try apply ur skills n wisdom in taklin watever. God bless Naija.

Reply 

  57. Dickie Frank on  October 19, 2012 4:30 pm

That is the typical of the caliber of army officers we have from the north. How can a whole GOC order his men to shoot trouble makers? He is only telling them to kill Nigerians at the slightest excuse or provocation. Someone should call that tout to order. Probably he is angry the way the army were killing boko haram members in the north, so he wants same fate on the South in Ondo.

Reply 

  58. david on  October 19, 2012 5:02 pm

he said that because human lives is nothing to hausas…just imagine G.O.C in army

Reply 

  59. david on  October 19, 2012 5:05 pm

i don’t know that naija still has actions army officers still they have not finish boko haram till now”

Reply 

  60. Pingback: GOC to soldiers: Shoot Ondo poll troublemakers | Newsfeed Nigeria

  61. sholly bobo on  October 19, 2012 5:43 pm

Na now we no dat Goc is bokoharam member yes, take ur time ok.

Reply 

  62. trumphtalk on  October 19, 2012 5:47 pm

Oga GOC ‘tion’sir\! Though I can’t help bt laugh @ ur order 4 hunting on sat.u ar a very funny man.seriously ondo voters have no excuse than to cunduct themselves on dat day.& if u like it or nt d GOC is on d right track cos there is no more space in d prison 4 election troubl makers.it cannot b contested dat its bad to shed blood bt some nigerians have waxed ears.those excessively angry @ GOC,do u have any other agender 4 d day dat oga is thwarting?Nigeria must move forward & it starts wt credibl elections now oga GOC have given his orders,i pray dat all voters in d state shld respect & conduct themselve properly on d day.so I say ‘go cast ur votes,go home & rest to avoid extra long tales dat day.’

Reply 

  63. sogo on  October 19, 2012 6:44 pm

mr goc is the decision of you and mr president or your own order? if it is, is a crime against humanity,watch your statement the whole World are reading your statement, we pray no blood will shared on Ondo election but if it happen you will answer for that, you think your boys will kill trouble makers? is innocent citizen who don’t know anything, sorry to said your not qualified to be goc of Nigeria army, upon all the training you go through but you don’t have any technique you can use but to gun people down? you need to withdraw your statement or ready to face the dance when ever it accord, i am not an ondo man but i am a Nigeria and we Nigerians should do things right..my last question if is in the north will you gave that order? everyday boko haram but you never order your boys to kill them\! why you order the killing of voters who foment trouble\! Shem mr goc\! i dont hide myself you can call me, +639194592867, i am available 24hrs of the day, we Nigerian are not happy with you our leaders

Reply 

  64. kelvin99 on  October 19, 2012 7:29 pm

What a crazy comment by this GOC ”shoot troublemakers who resist arrest”.In the first place why should soldiers be involved in electionwhere’r the police,civil defence,etc.,o\! I’ve forgotten is nigeria..

Reply 

  65. Charles on  October 19, 2012 7:39 pm

some of the comments here are very unfortunate and showed that the transformations we are yerning for in this country is serious being thwarted by many in disguise, if one cannot give this type of order we cannot reach out goal in this country. how can we have free and fare election where people have set machineries in motion to cause violence and foment troubles during elections instead of voting and making sure everyone that wants to vote votes for his choice. the order came at the right time and how I wish the order is carried very strictly. We need a free and fare elections in this country from the grassroots.

Reply 

  66. arthur william on  October 19, 2012 7:52 pm

THIS GOC NEEDS TO BE ADVICE, ON THE KIND OF UTTERANCES HE SHOULD USE IN THE PUBLIC, I WONDER HOW HE GOT TO THE RANK OF MAJOR GENERAL, ANYWHERE NA ABOKI

Reply 

  67. martins on  October 19, 2012 8:00 pm

mr Goc i must say that u comment is nt all that bad but, i think majority of people may nt like to go out again nt even to vote a person of their choice bc they value there life better than any other thing u can imagine where soldiers are been ordered to shoot nooo\!\!\!

Reply 

  68. Samuel m.c.o on  October 19, 2012 8:26 pm

I like dat his order dis our country is full of corruption. If any body try to do any tin bad let them shoot de person to death

Reply 

  69. W. A. on  October 19, 2012 9:36 pm

What is the difference between BH, the illiterates and the GOC. His action is uncivilized and unstatemanly. We know you are working for Jonathan/PDP, you should have been more diplomatic in your utterances, because, one day, you will be referred to – poasitively or negatively. Unless if Ondo State people are coward, they should all come out irrespective of FGN threats to scare them away and cast their vote \(s\) as was done in Edo State. People revolution is stronger than any threat from anywhere.

Reply 

  70. FRANCIS I. URO on  October 19, 2012 11:06 pm

GOC,IS FREE AND FAIR ELECTION GREATER THAN LIFE YOU ARE ASKING YOUR MEN TO WASTE SHOULD TROUBLE OCCURES IN TOMRROW’S ELECTION IN ONDO STATE?

Reply 

  71. Comr. Enyinnaya Emmanuel C on  October 19, 2012 11:25 pm

What if such order were giving against him for not being able to address Boko Haram insurgence. How can such a man issue order without thinking?

Reply 

  72. Dele Odugbemi on  October 19, 2012 11:54 pm

Such shoot at sight order on election day by GOC is careless and senseless statement that may cause panic among innocent people that will be scared of being killed on flimsy excuses  
The GOC should go to North and kill all his Boko Haram brothers not peace loving people of Ondo state.  
To HELL with Nigerian opportunists in position of power and authority in this mere geographical expression called NIGERIA.

Reply 

  73. Soronnadi, I on  October 20, 2012 1:52 am

This man does not deserve to spend another day in the army. He should have been dishonorable booted out of the military. He does not even qualify to be a private in the army if actually he gave such an order to those howling hounds you call soldiers. This is a declaration of war on citizens. Who gave him power to declare war; the president, the congress or what? Did this actually came from an Army General who should know better? How did this savage become an army General? Does he know the implication of what he said? Does he have morals. Is this army values, ethics, or ethos? Does he think this country belongs to him? Does he understand the rules of engagement? This is a callous statement from a callous fulani herds man. Woe unto this makeshift country called Nigeria. This is the kind of soldiers they have; a quasi military set organisation. Oh pity\! Telling soldiers to shoot at citizens? Hey\! hey\! this is sickening. I feel like exploding. In reality this beast is not a soldier, he has that hang-over that being a soldier means killing citizens. Can he define what being a soldier is.  
The Nigerian system should hence forth, desist from using soldier in a situation like this \(elections\), if the police is incapable, let them disband the police entirely – period\! Soldiers are trained profesionals, leaders and leaders lead by examplary behavior not by mob style and fashion. The military authorities, the National Assembly, the Presidency should, SHOULD reprimand this officer, relieve him of his duties, and under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, dismiss him from the military. This is the Nigerian Army not Maj Gen Muhammed Abubarka’s Army. You abide by rules and regulations, observe all Standards of Operational Procedures, maintain military discipline, and carry yourself profesionally at all times; General.

Reply 

  74. Duro on  October 20, 2012 2:59 am

A trouble maker who comes with weapons of destruction deserves to be destroyed. The GOC is right and he knows what he is saying.  
Some of these thugs will appear in police and army uniforms. They should keep off or be shot.  
What is the difference between BH and a thug that destroys lives and properties to rig an election?

Reply 

  75. jonh on  October 20, 2012 6:56 am

Long live the GOC, nigerians need iron hand. Anybody in that has horn in his or her head should go make trouble. Nigerians are using democracy as an excuse to violate law and order in the country, since the inception of democratic rule in naija , a lot of lives has been lost compared to military rule. So the ball is in anybody’s court either to remain alive or be dead while making trouble in ONDO STATE.

Reply 

  76. jonh on  October 20, 2012 7:04 am

TRY ZA GOC\! A trial will convince you\!\!\!

Reply 

  77. okolie emeka on  October 20, 2012 12:06 pm

OGA GOC, THE POLITICAL PARTIES ARE NOT AT MILITARY WARS WITH ONE ANOTHER, RATHER IT IS POLICY DIFFERENCES AND AS SUCH, YOU SHOULD HAVE SEND YOUR MEN WITH TEAR GAS AND HAND CUFFS SO THAT TROUBLEMAKERS WILL BE ALIVE TO TELL WHY THEY HAVE CHOSEN TO DISRUPT THE ELECTION, MEANWHILE OUR BULLETS WILL BE RESERVED FOR MORE SECURITY TREATING SITUATIONS REQUIRING MILITARY ACTION.

Reply 

  78. Naija on  October 20, 2012 1:42 pm

This statement is political.GOC what have you done with BOKO HARAM. Where are you from self? All southern state are more peaceful than you BOKO HARAM States.yeye

Reply 

  79. agent on  October 20, 2012 4:52 pm

GOC, II SUPPORT YOU 100% TO SHOOT ANYBODY THAT TRY TO DISRUPT THE ELECTION EVEN IF NA TINUBU LEAVE LAGOS CROSS TO ONDO ABEG SHOOT AM COS NO BE AC GET ONDO

Reply 

  80. Vino Chris on  October 21, 2012 6:27 am

For me those who are abusing the GOC for his word SHOOT ASIDE if resist arrest are the ones already planned to rig the election, so my good friends weather you are in democracy or Crazydemo, you have been warned with your rigging plans to desist from such plan because you will be shoot as OGA GOC has concluded. obey the law . GOD BLESS NIGERIN ARMY.

Reply 




### Leave A Reply Cancel Reply

  * ### Today’s Edition

  * ### Premium

7 steps to belly fat reduction \(Free e-course delivered to you\)

Live, Study, Immigrate & Work in Canada legally

  * ### Archives

July 2015 M T W T F S S  
« Jun      
 12345  
6789101112  
13141516171819  
20212223242526  
2728293031    
  



Enquiries 

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.  
Call Uche on +234-805-633-4351, or email:  
onlinerate@sunnewsonline  
OR \[email protected\]

Site Design by Zero-One
