  * About Us
  * Advertise with us
  * Privacy Policy
  * Thursday 2nd June 2011 
  * Follow us on
  *   * 


  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Technology
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs



… As Ohunayo faults FG’s bailout funds Built environment experts want FG, states to build liveable cities

# Bombings: Part of failed plots to derail Jonathan’s inauguration – Security Agencies

On May 31, 2011 · In News

Tweet

By KINGSLEY OMONOBI/SUSAN EDEH  
ABUJA—A few hours after the inauguration of President Goodluck Jonathan, a gale of bomb explosions swept through Bauchi, Abuja and Zaria, the hometown of Vice- President Namadi Sambo, which claimed 14 lives and injuring about 50 others.

Reacting to the bomb blasts, Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General A.O. Ihejirika, described the incidents as terrorist attacks because of the kind of explosives that were used while the police said they were already investigating the explosions.

Military authorities disclosed to Vanguard in Abuja, yesterday, that the explosion that occurred at 8. 30p.m. at the Zuba International Electronics Market on Sunday, on the Kaduna/Suleija road, killing one person and injuring three persons, was indeed, a bomb blast and may have been one of the several bombing plots planned to embarrass the nation during the inauguration of President Goodluck Jonathan at Eagle Square in the presence of over 40 foreign leaders.

A victim \(Benjamin Gideon \) receiving treatment at Diamond Crest Hospital, Zuba, yesterday. 

Vanguard was also informed that the successful detonation of the bomb in a relaxation spot may have been made possible following the decision of security agencies to unblock communication facilities which had earlier been jammed from 11am to 8pm for security reasons in the Federal Capital Territory.

Contacted on the development, FCT Police Spokesman, Superintendent of Police Jimoh Moshood, said men of the Anti-terrorists squad and the Police bomb disposal unit had cordoned off the entire Zuba Market and were combing the surroundings to ensure that more explosives were not left behind. He added that arrests were yet to be made.

See more photos here

According to a security source, “the explosion of the bombs in Bauchi Mammy market which killed 13 persons and injured 40 others may be a kind of revenge on the military for foiling all attempts by these groups to successfully execute their plots of causing mayhem at the inauguration in the state”,

An army officer who participated in the rescue operation in the Bauchi incident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said at least 20 people were dead.

“By my estimation, because I was involved in the rescue operation, the number of people killed could not be less than 20. Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Mr Abdulkadir Indabawa, said the attacks were caused by “locally-made devices”.

The Barracks Commander, Brigadier- General Agbo Robinson, said the bombs went off at “exactly 8 pm when people were relaxing” and that all victims were civilians.

The Chief of Army Staff, however, said a lot of security measures have been put in place to avoid a re-currence and that one important aspect of security in the state, was the cooperation of the general public.

He advised members of the public to be vigilant and watch out for strange elements and character, so as to apprehend terrorists before they strike.

According to him, “The security agents in the state cannot fight terrorism alone, it is the collaborative effort of everybody in the state. That is why we are appealing that members of the public should always be on alert and report any suspicious movements”.

Comments are moderated. Please keep them clean and brief.

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus>

If you enjoyed this article, please consider sharing it\! 

Comments are closed.

  * ### Latest News

    * Group raises alarm over threat to Lakoju’s life
    * Re: The Bukola Saraki years in Kwara State
    * Bankole fights back…says EFCC’s invitation political
    * Bauchi: Day Yuguda honoured slain Corpers
    * ‘Militants’ take over Obosi
    * INEC urged to review voters’ register
    * A transformation agenda for accelerating national development \(3\)
    * On the lame ducks
    * Aliyu urges North to navigate back to mainstream politics
    * Eagles 4 – 1 super
    * Jonathan’s giant strides in petroleum sector
    * NFF vs NFA: NSC heads to Fifa
    * Supersport MD longs for Lagos club




Sweet Crude  
Education  
Environment  
Metro  
Interview  
Labour  
Law & Human Rights  
Bus Stop Parliament  
Crime Guard  
Crime Alert

  
  


LifeStyle  
Health  
Travel & Tourism  
Vista  
Human Angle  
Is it Beyond Pardon?  
The Arts  
Life with treena Kwenta  
Dis N Dart  
Tummy Talk

Columns  
Monday  
Sport Bassey  
People & Politics  
Rational Perspectives   
Treena Kwenta  
  
Tuesday  
Tuesday Platform   
Talking Point  
  
Wednesday  
Dear Bunmi   
  
  


  
Thursday  
People & Politics  
  
Friday  
Sweet & Sour  
Onochie Anibeze  
My Layman's View  
Crisp Shots   
  
Saturday  
The Passing Scene  
  


  
Sunday  
Frankly Speaking  
Sunday Perspectives   
The Orbit  
Point of Order  
The Diasporan  
Voice of Reason  
Woman to Women   
Moment to Moment  
  
  
©2011 Vanguard Media  
Site by femiolubosi
