  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



Monday May 4th, 2015

Monday May 4th, 2015

Follow @vanguardngrnews

Breaking News

  * Missing $20bn: Read & Download Forensic Audit Report on NNPC



TRANSLATE:::

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Tech
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs
  * Columns
    * Sports Bassey
    * People & Politics
    * Rational Perspectives
    * Broken Links
    * Article of Faith
    * Tuesday Platform
    * Pini Jason
    * Talking Point
    * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
    * For Crying Out Loud
    * People & Politics
    * Is’haq Modibbo Kawu
    * The Hub
    * Sweet and Sour
    * My Layman’s View
    * Onochie Anibeze
    * Crisp Shots
    * Tonye Princewill
    * The Passing Scene
    * Soul Kate
    * Stomach Democracy
    * My World
    * Sunday Perspectives
    * Frankly Speaking
    * The Orbit
    * The Spectrum
    * Vista Woman
    * Nigeria Today
    * Voice of Reason
    * Moment to Moment
    * Article of Faith
  * PROPERTY
  * THESPARK



# Chief of Army Staff vows military will end insurgency

on April 30, 2015   /   in News 8:12 pm   /   Comments

Tweet

## The Chief of Army Staff \(CAOS\), Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah, on Thursday in Lagos said the Nigerian Army would not relent until it brought insurgency to an end in the country.

Minimah gave Nigerians the assurance at the inauguration of the newly refurbished 81 Division Officers’ Mess built by the General Officer Commanding, Maj.-Gen. Tamunomeibi Dibi.

“Never again will Nigeria walk this path where insurgency and terrorism will come to redefine our unity as a nation and bring the Nigerian Army to a low level of concern to its own.

“We will continue to push in major operations in the fight against insurgency to a close. It is achievable and we are working towards that.

“It is our wish that we find them \(Chibok girls\). It’s just in one of the camps that were destroyed that we found that number of Nigerians.

“I am sure that as we edge further into the forest, we will begin to capture more camps,’’ he said.

“We pray that we rescue more people. Every Nigerian looks forward to this.

“Let me commend the efforts of our gallant officers and soldiers who continue to make enormous sacrifices to ensure that Nigeria remains a safe, united and stable.

“I wish to reassure all Nigerians that the Nigerian Army will continue to do what is in the interest of the nation in pursuance of our constitutional roles.

“We will always rise to the occasion wherever and whenever duty calls. We will not fail Nigeria and Nigerians.’’

Minimah expressed profound thanks to President Goodluck Jonathan for his unwavering support for the Nigerian Army.

He noted that Jonathan had in various ways, particularly his morale boosting visits to the North-East operational theatre demonstrated unique leadership and solidarity.

Also speaking, the GOC, 81 Division, Dibi, said the mess was built through direct labour under the supervision of 45 division engineers.

“Greater part of the resources used in executing the project was initially generated internally and with support from friends of the division.

“Along the line, the COAS visited the mess under reconstruction and was impressed with the efforts put in place and the progress made,’’ he said.

The Flag Officer Commanding, Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Jonathan Ango, senior army offcers and the police graced the inauguration.

##### SHARE ON

TwitterFacebookGoogle+Buffer

    Print       Email

NEXT ARTICLE →  
APC will win entire South-East in 2019 – Okorocha

← PREVIOUS ARTICLE  
Group blasts Igbo leaders seeking favours from Buhari 

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

  *   * ## Audit Report on NNPC

Click to read the Forensic Audit Report on NNPC

  *   *     * MOST COMMENTED
    * RECENT COMMENTS

  *   *   * ## E-editions

  *   * Buhari vs Jonathan: Beyond the Election, by Charles Soludo 

  *   *   *   *   * 


  * ## Latest News

    * 4:19 am Does Abuja Know Hogan Kid Bassey?
    * 3:46 am We‘ll reorganise PDP to regain power at national level —Dickson
    * 3:45 am Ebola: CDC recommends non-contact with male survivors’ semen
    * 3:01 am The army’s confidential report on Buhari: A man of boundless energy — Ogbemudia
    * 2:56 am Nigerians should buy locally made goods to grow economy — MD BoI
    * 2:50 am Terrorists’ fuel, food supplier nabbed
    * 2:46 am Rivers PDP warns RSIEC against conducting planned LG polls
    * 2:43 am Impeachment: Fayose is embarassing all of us in Ekiti — Speaker Omirin
    * 2:36 am Dearth of nurses hit Lagos hospitals
    * 2:18 am No police gun was found in my bedroom, says Edo monarch
    * 1:28 am Dwindling Revenue: Parents to assist Osun govt in tax collection
    * 1:09 am Uduaghan, others hail Olu of Warri on 28th coronation anniversary
    * 1:07 am Ibori, man of political intellect —Amori
    * 1:06 am World Relays: Okagbare powers Nigeria to gold
    * 1:03 am Abia gov-elect bans courtesy visits
    * 1:01 am Michael Okpara University to generate N800m annually from catfish production —VC
    * 1:00 am Obis celebrate Mikel’s second EPL crown
View all →
  *   * ## For the record

    * ### Mission of my presidency by Muhammadu Buhari

The President-elect General Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, stated the mission of his presidency at t

    * ### PDP managed poverty, we will end it – Tinubu

    * ### Remarks by Solomon Arase as Acting IGP

  * ## Relationships

    * ### 5, 483 marriages formalized at Lagos registries’ in 2014 — LASG

LAGOS State Government has said no fewer than 5, 483 marriages were formalized at different registri

    * ### He’s back after jilting me

    * ### My cousin forces himself on me

  * ## Editorial

    * ### Does Abuja Know Hogan Kid Bassey?

IF we are to judge the future of Nigeria by the promises that appear on election posters, Nigeria is

    * ### Special Labour Day

  * ## Cartoon

    * ###  kiss 

View more →

  *   * Tweets about "@vanguardngrnews"

  * 


## People & Politics

  * ### Igbos: winners or losers 2015?

THE way Igbos voted in the 2015 general election has been widely misunderstood. The South East ...

Read More →




## Sobowale On Business

  * ### Nigeria without oil is now a reality

“Unsold Nigeria crude grows as buyer interest falls”. PUNCH, Thursday, April 9, 2015, p 41....

Read More →




## Rational Perspectives

  * ### When $ became cheaper in the black market

The actual value of dollars deployed for this purpose is not known, but it was certainly large ...

Read More →




## Diaspora Matters

  * ### Help\! Nigeria’s pensioners on verge of ‘extinction’

When the Olusegun Obasanjo-led government announced in 2004 of a revamp of the pension system ...

Read More →




## Sunday Perspectives

  * ### Innocent Egwim and his rendezvous with history

Due to the unsavoury experiences Nigerians have had because of incompetent political leadership...

Read More →




## Nigeria Today

  * ### The so-called APC’s ban on AIT

One of the headline news of the week which ended yesterday was the story that the President-ele...

Read More →




  * Sweet Crude
  * Education
  * Environment
  * Motoring
  * Metro
  * Interview
  * Labour
  * Law & Human Rights
  * Bus Stop Parliament
  * Crime Guard
  * Crime Alert
  * Homes & Property
  * Investors Forum
  * Insurance &You
  * Features
  * Worship
  * Conference Hall
  * Facing the Ka'aba



  * LifeStyle
  * Health
  * Travel & Tourism
  * Human Angle
  * Is it Beyond Pardon?
  * The Arts
  * Tummy Talk
  * Woman



  * Columns
  * Monday
  *   * Sport Bassey
  * People & Politics
  * Rational Perspectives
  * Sobowale on Business
  * Broken Links
  * Tuesday
  * Femi Aribisala
  * Tuesday Platform
  * Dispatches from America
  * Wednesday
  * Talking Point
  * Hakeem Baba-Ahmad
  * For Crying Out Loud
  * Tip of a New Dawn



  * Thursday
  * People & Politics
  * Is'haq Modibbo Kawu
  * The Hub
  * Veggie-victory
  * Friday
  * Sweet & Sour
  * Lipstick
  * My Layman's View
  * Tentacles
  * Onochie Anibeze
  * Saturday
  * The Passing Scene
  * Trends in Politics
  * Matters Arising
  * Marriage and Family
  * Hope & Possibilities Ride
  * My World



  * Sunday
  * Frankly Speaking
  * Sunday Perspectives
  * The Orbit
  * Outside Looking In
  * Vista Woman
  * Nigeria Today
  * Moment to Moment
  * Article of Faith



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Advertise With Us
  * contact us



© 2015 Vanguard Media Limited, Nigeria
