  *   *   *   *   * 


Menu

  * Home
  * The Commission
    * The Establishment Act 
    * Executive Chairman 
    * Operations 
    * Public Affairs Department 
    * EFCC Academy 
  * News & Information
  * Careers
  * ISP/Cafe' Register
  * Wanted
  * FOI



EFCC will get you, any where, anytime. . . 

Menu

  * Home
  * Board Members
  * NFIU
  * SCUML
  * Scams & Safety 
  * External Cooperation
    *       * EU/UNODC Project 
      * DFID/J4A Projects

  * EFCC Offices
  * Report Complaints
  * Related Sites 
  * Public Notices & Convictions
  * What EFCC Did With Recovered Loot



##  Anti-Graft War: EFCC Seeks Army Support 

The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has called on the Nigerian Army to partner with it in the difficult task of fighting corruption and economic crimes in Nigeria. The Commission’s Head of Operations, Enugu Zone, Obioha Okorie made the appeal on Thursday January 14, when he led senior officers of the zone on a courtesy visit to the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 82 Division, Nigerian Army, Enugu, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru.

  
He stated that the visit underscores the need for synergy and collaboration in the fight against corruption.

Responding, Gen.Attahiru, said he was happy that the Head of Operations found it expedient to pay a courtesy visit to the Division. He pledged the support of officers and men of his division to the fight against economic and financial crimes and wished Okorie a successful tenure.

* * *

  
Media & Publicity  
15th January, 2016

Home | Media & Public Affairs | EFCC Contacts

Copyright © 2017  . All Rights Reserved. EFCC, Powered by Information and Communication Technology - ICT Dept.
