Search 

      * News
      * Reports
      * Opinion
      * Politics
      * Business
      * Sports
      * Entertainment
      * Lifestyle
      * Education
      * Videos
      * Photos
      * Documents



Menu 

  * Submit  Submit a Story 
  * Login 
  * Signup 



  * Like Us On Facebook 
  * Follow Us On Twitter 
  * Subscribe To Our Videos On YouTube 
  * Subscribe To Our RSS Feeds 



Search 

  * News
  * Reports
  * Opinion


  * Politics
  * Business
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Lifestyle
  * Education


  * More Topics
    * Politics
    * Business
    * Sports
    * Entertainment
    * Lifestyle
    * Education


  * Videos
  * Photos
  * Documents



#  Army "Corners" Boko Haram Leader, Shekau, In Borno Hills-Punch Newspaper 

The leader of the Boko Haram Islamic sect, Sheikh Abubakar Shekau, may have been cornered by operatives of the Joint Task Force in Gwoza hills, Borno State. 

* * *

by Punch Newspaper, Lagos Jul 26, 2013

The leader of the Boko Haram Islamic sect, Sheikh Abubakar Shekau, may have been cornered by operatives of the Joint Task Force in Gwoza hills, Borno State.

A top security source told Saturday PUNCH on Thursday that the JTF had located the area where the Boko Haram leader was hiding.

The source stated, “We are combing Gwoza hills where we believe Shekau is hiding.”

The source added that a unit of the Army’s Special Forces team had launched a “well-coordinated assault” on a group of insurgents somewhere in the Gwoza hills areas on June 26, 2013. Shekau, the source added, was in the group of Islamists, with some of his closest aides.

He added that the operation ran into “hitches” and in the ensuing gun battle some of the insurgents and members of the Special Forces group lost their lives.

Another military source told Saturday PUNCH that one of the army casualties was one of the country’s best Special Forces officer, Major A.T. Fambiya, who had volunteered to lead the operation.

Sources told Saturday PUNCH five soldiers were also gunned down by the insurgents during the encounter.

Fambiya, who hailed from Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, had reportedly volunteered for the mission because of his excellent knowledge of the area.

The source said the military authorities had accepted Fambiya’s offer because he had grown up in the area and he understood the area’s rocky terrain.

Fambiya, who was on posting to the 322 Artillery Regiment in Benin City, Edo State, was redeployed to the JTF on June 13, 2013, a few weeks into his deployment to the JTF’s Operation Boyona.

A brief biography of the late soldier presented by the Nigerian Army authorities during his burial at the Nigerian Military Cemetery, Abuja on Thursday stated that he “was killed in action on 26 June in a fierce encounter with Boko Haram terrorists.”

The secrecy surrounding the operation made the next of kin to the Major, a pastor, Iliya Joshua, to call on the Federal Government to investigate the cause of the death of his brother.

“We call on the Federal Government to investigate the rumoured cause of the death of the officers since it remains a mystery to our family,” he said, without giving any explanation about what he meant by “rumoured death”.

Iliya later told our correspondent that he made the call to the Federal Government and the military authorities to investigate the deaths because his brother was not supposed to be in Borno.

He said that the late major was supposed to be undergoing training at the Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Kantagora, Niger State.

He said, “I made the call because he was supposed to be at the Army school of artillery. The last time I called him, he said that he was not part of those people that were going to Maiduguri for this operation.

“But later, I was told that he had been killed. He was not supposed to be on posting to that place.”

When our correspondent contacted the Director of Defence Information, Brig. Gen Chris Olukolade, he said that the mandate of the JTF was to look for all insurgents and not just the leader of the Boko Haram sect.

“We know that we are combing everywhere for every insurgent. The pursuit of the insurgents is continuing. That is the mandate at the moment,” he said.

President Goodluck Jonathan had told the CNN a few days ago that the Boko Haram threat would be overcome by security operatives in the country.

He said that the Federal Government was neither negotiating nor begging the Islamic militants as steps were being taken to deal decisively with the scourge.

He had said, “We are not negotiating with Boko Haram. It is done all over the world. It is not negotiation. We are not begging.

“Our security architecture was first designed to deal with ordinary criminals but since terror started, we have been building it. I believe if you are to interview me again in three months’ time, you will praise me that this government has tried.

“We are tackling terror from various angles. We must first of all stop them through military intervention, which we have initiated by declaring a state of emergency in three states where these terror attacks are predominant.”  


Punch Newspaper, Lagos 

  * News



### You May Also Like

### Read Next

Breaking News 15 Nigerian Soldiers Ambushed And Killed As 200 Troops Attempt To Recapture Damboa Barracks From Boko Haram

0 Comments

1 Month Ago 

Terrorism Boko Haram Leader Shekau Mocks \#BringBackOurGirls Campaign

0 Comments

3 Weeks Ago 

Exclusive Disturbing Video Shows How Gleeful Boko Haram Members Decapitated Nigerian Air Force Officer

0 Comments

2 Weeks Ago 

Christianity Varsity Student Kills Father At Redeem Church Of God Over Prayer-PUNCH Newspaper

0 Comments

1 Month Ago 

Christianity Rev. Okotie's Lavish Romance With Roli Bode George Made Me Quit--Okotie's Ex-Church Pianist

0 Comments

4 Weeks Ago 

CRIME Why I Hacked My Lawyer Father To Death – Student -- PremiumTimes

0 Comments

1 Month Ago 

### Trending Now

Sahara Reporters Ebola: 40 Reportedly Quarantined In Lagos

0 Comments

17 Hours Ago 

News Nasarawa Lawmakers Insistence Of Impeaching Al-Makura Dangerous-Col. Umar

0 Comments

18 Hours Ago 

Breaking News Leader Of Nigerian Medical Association Resigns

0 Comments

5 Hours Ago 

News Government Sets Up Isolation Centers For Ebola Victims In Lagos

0 Comments

7 Hours Ago 

Interested in Advertising?  Sponsored Ad 

Opinion Ebola In Nigeria: Should We Be Worried? By Chikwe Ihekweazu

0 Comments

10 Hours Ago 

News NNPC Shuts Down Lagos Clinic Indefinitely After Report Of Ebola Infection

0 Comments

4 Hours Ago 

Press Release President Jonathan Declares National Emergency On Ebola, Approves N1.9 Billion Special Intervention Fund

0 Comments

5 Hours Ago 

News Southern Kaduna Wants Diezani-Alison Sacked, Says Minister Runs Nigeria’s Oil As Personal Estate

0 Comments

3 Hours Ago 

Opinion The Ebola Outbreak Has Proven Why Africa Will Likely Continue To Be Underdeveloped By Chinedu George Nnawetanma

0 Comments

6 Hours Ago 

News Suspected Herdsmen Butcher Three Persons In Southern Kaduna

0 Comments

3 Hours Ago 

Opinion Republicans Can Learn A Lot From Nigeria On Voter Suppression By Dr. Wumi Akintide

0 Comments

2 Hours Ago 

Opinion "Federal Republic of Ants’’: A Re-reading\! By Justine John Dyikuk

0 Comments

7 Hours Ago 

Interested in Advertising?  Sponsored Ad 

View the discussion thread.

SaharaReporters.com is an outstanding, groundbreaking news website that encourages citizen journalists to report ongoing corruption and government malfeasance in Africa. Using photos, text, and video dynamically, the site informs and prompts concerned African citizens and activists globally to act, denouncing officially-sanctioned corruption, the material impoverishment of its citizenry, defilement of the environment, and the callous disregard of the democratic principles enshrined in the constitution. 

Search 

###  Connect With Us 

  * Like Us On Facebook 
  * Follow Us On Twitter 
  * Watch Us On YouTube 
  * Subscribe To Our Feeds 



###  Sahara Reporters 

  * About 
  * Contact Us 
  * Careers 
  * Support Us 
  * Advertise 
  * RSS Feeds 
  * Submit A Story 



###  Sections 

  * News 
  * Reports 
  * Opinion 
  * Politics 
  * Business 
  * Sports 
  * Entertainment 
  * Lifestyle 
  * Education 
  * Videos 
  * Photos 
  * Documents 



###  News Sources 

  * 100Reporters 
  * Africa.com 
  * African Spotlight 
  * Businessday 
  * Channels Television 
  * Coastalnews 
  * Daily Independent 
  * Daily Times Of Nigeria 
  * Desert Herald 



  * Economic Confidential 
  * Iq4news 
  * Leadership Newspaper 
  * Liberty Radio Kaduna 
  * National Daily 
  * NewsDiary Online 
  * Nigerian News Service 
  * Nigerian Tribune 
  * Nigerian Village Square 



  * Okey Ndibe 
  * Osun Defender 
  * Peoples Daily 
  * PM News 
  * Pointblanknews 
  * Premium Times 
  * Punch 
  * Sahara TV 
  * The Guardian 



  * The Nation 
  * The Sun 
  * Thisday 
  * TV360 Nigeria 
  * Vanguard 
  * Viewnaija 



Copyright©2014 Sahara Reporters, Inc. All rights reserved. — Privacy Policy
