info.army@army.mil.ng

RSS Facebook Twitter

  *   * Home

    * Office of the COAS

  * About the Army

    * Army History
    * Mission Statement
    * COAS Vision
    * Chronicle of Command

  * Army Divisions

    * 1 Division
    * 2 Division
    * 3 Division
    * 81 Division
    * 82 Division
    * 7 Division

  * AHQ Dept

    * DAPP
    * DATOPS
    * DOAL
    * DOAA
    * DASE
    * DCMA
    * NAWL/G
    * ATIC
    * LEGAL SERVICE
    * MILITARY SECRETARY
    * DAPR

  * Media

    * Soja Magazine
    * Press Release
    * Army Email
    * Photo Gallery
    * Army Video

  * Recruitment

    * DSSC & SSC
    * Regular Recruit Intake

  * Contact Us



Select Page Home     Home Version 1     Home Version 2     Home Version 3 Page Templates     Services     About Us     Left Sidebar Page     Right Sidebar Page     Search Results     Contact Us Features     Elements     Columns     Sliders     Media     Multi-Level Menu         Item One         Item Two Portfolio     Portfolio List     Portfolio Item     Portfolio Item Gallery     Portfolio Item Video Blog     Blog List     Blog Item Contact Us

Home Nigerian Army Division 81 DIVISION

# Nigerian Army | 81 Division

10 March, 2014 by Admin

Nigerian Army | 81 Division 

Headquarters 81 Division Nigerian Army is located in Lagos. It is the newest of the Nigerian Army Formations. It was formed during the colonial era. The division which replaced the Lagos Garrison Command \(LGC\) came into being in 2000. It is charged with the responsibility of securing its Area of Responsibility \(AOR\) covering Lagos and Ogun States of Nigeria which are economic nerve centres of the country and also ensuring that the borders located in its AOR are secured. The division is a mechanized infantry with affiliated combat support and combat service support units

##### GENERAL OFFICERS COMMANDING 81 DIVISION

##### LAGOS GARRISON COMMAND 

S/N

Rank 

Name 

Awards/ Decoration 

Appt 

Period   
  
1\. 

Brig 

AK Adisa 

FSS psc mni 

Comd 

13 Jan 92 - Oct 92   
  
2\. 

Brig Gen 

AK Adisa 

FSS psc mni 

Comd 

Oct 92 - 20 Sep 93   
  
3\. 

Brig Gen 

IR Bamaiyi 

FSS psc mni 

Comd 

20 Sep 93 - 30 Dec 94   
  
4\. 

Maj Gen 

IR Bamaiyi 

FSS psc mni 

Comd 

31 Dec 94 - 15 Apr 96   
  
5\. 

Brig Gen 

PN Aziza 

FSS DSS psc mni 

Comd 

1 Jul 96 - 30 Jun 98   
  
6\. 

Maj Gen 

PN Aziza 

FSS DSS psc mni 

Comd 

1 Jul 96 - 14 Jan 98   
  
7\. 

Maj Gen 

BS Magashi 

FSS MSS DSS psc mni 

Comd 

14 Jan 98 - 4 Aug 98   
  
8\. 

Maj Gen 

SVL Malu 

DSS psc mni fwc 

Comd 

4 Aug 98 - 19 Jul 99   
  
9\. 

Brig Gen 

GT Zidon 

FSS MSS psc Ndc OFR 

Comd 

19 Jul 99 - 25 May 00   
  
10\. 

Brig Gen 

GT Zidon 

FSS MSS psc Ndc OFR 

GOC 

28 May 00 - 12 Apr 01   
  
11\. 

Brig Gen 

TN Abdu 

MSS DSS psc Fwc Ndu 

GOC 

13 Apr 01 - 2004   
  
12.

Maj Gen 

AA Mshelbwalla 

 

 

2004 - 17 Jan 2005   
  
13.

Maj Gen 

S Iliya 

DSS psc Fwc 

GOC

17 Jan 2005 - March 06  
  
14.

Maj Gen 

JO Adesunloye

DSS psc\(+\) fwc 

GOC

March 2006 - 17 Sep 06   
  
15.

Maj Gen 

OA Ihejirika 

 

GOC

07 Jan 2007 - 2008   
  
16.

Maj Gen

Eugene Nwanjuma 

 

 

2008 – 2010  
  
17.

Maj Gen 

KTJ Minimah 

 

 

2010 -2013  
  
18.

Maj Gen

OA Umahi

 

 

2013 - 2014   
  
19 Maj Gen  TI Dibi    

##### 2014 till date  
  
### Nigerian Army History

The history of the Nigerian Army dates to 1863, when Lt Glover of the Royal Navy selected 18 indigenes from the Northern part of the country and organized them into a local force, known as the "Glover Hausas". Readmore.

### Footer Navigation

  * Home
  * About NA
  * Latest News
  * Army Operations
  * Soja Magazine
  * Contact Us



### Latest News

#### From the Office of the Directorate of Army Public Relations

Army Headquaters

#### Soja Voice in conjunction with Directorate of Army Public Relations

Aso Radio 93.5FM 

### Get in Touch with Us

0701 386 8116 : Web Developer

info.army@army.mil.ng

Garki Area 8, Abuja, Nigeria.

Tweeter Google+ Facebook

Copyright © 2014  |   Nigerian Army Official Website    |Powered by Directorate of Army Public Relations Headquaters
