Breaking

  * Suicide bomber kills self in Maiduguri as army warns residents over kid-bomber
  * Oshiomhole welcomes PDP’s call for EFCC probe
  * Okorocha reads riot act to Imo traditional rulers
  * Why plot to unseat Ekweremadu will fail –Rep
  * LG polls: PPA commences statewide tour in Anambra
  * Yaba Psychiatric Hospital workers battle management over unpaid entitlements
  * Ministers: Why Buhari is still searching
  * Let’s have part time legislators
  * Why Buhari will not fail
  * Rochas’ new initiative for South East



  * RSS
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Google+
  * LinkedIn



  * Home
  * About Us
  * Paper Ad Rate
  * Online Ad Rates
  * Contact Us



Navigate

  * National
  * Politics
  * Business
  * Sports
  * Editorial
  * Entertainment
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Columns
    * Broken Tongues
    * Capital Matters
    * Duro Onabule
    * Femi Adesina
    * FrankTalk
    * Funke Egbemode
    * Insights
    * Kalu Leadership Series
    * Offside Musings
    * PressClips
    * Public Sphere
    * Ralph Egbu
    * Sideview
    * The Flipside – Eric Osagie
    * Turf Game
    * Views from Abroad
    * Diabetes Corner



You are at:Home»National»Army deploys another 800 to Darfur

#  Army deploys another 800 to Darfur 

6

By Our Reporter on  January 13, 2013 National

…Second in eight days

From ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE, Kaduna

Barely eight days after 800 men and officers of the Nigerian Army were deployed on a peace-keeping mission to Darfur Region of Sudan, another 800 all ranks have been deployed to Africa Union/United Nations Hybrid Operations in Darfur. The troop is to replace another battalion that has completed its mission and ready to return to Nigeria.

Addressing the 333 Battalion troop Commanded by Lt. Colonel T. E. Gagariga at the graduation of the troop from its pre-deployment training from the Nigerian Army Peace Keeping Centre \(NAPKC\), Jaji, near Kaduna, General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 3 Armoured Division, Major General Jack Nwogbo, told them to fight tirelessly to discharge their mandate.

This GOC warned the troop to avoid engaging in drug trafficking and abide by the United Nations zero tolerance policy on sexual exploitation. According to the GOC, who was represented by 3 Division’s Chief of Staff, Brigadier General James Akomolafe, the 4-week quality training given the troop at NAPKC was to refresh, polish and add some knowledge and expertise in their various fields.

“I must state categorically that you must fight to discharge your mandate when the need arises, especially when there is no alternative if you are to protect yourselves, your colleagues, or persons and property in your care,” he said. He, however, charged the troop to respect the cultural and religious sensitivity of the people of Darfur and discharge their duties with high level professionalism.

Earlier in his speech, Commandant of NAPKC, Major General John Samuel Zaruwa, said the graduands have received adequate training to ensure effective performance in any peace keeping operation with specific interest within the Sudan environment. He noted that the nature of the Sudanese operational environment makes the Advance Rifle Marksmanship training particularly important.

“Additionally, the exercise setting was designed to give the troops the opportunity to practice tactical and operational skills required in African Union/United Nations Hybrid Operations in Darfur, based on lessons we have learnt from the Nigerian Army’s long engagement in Sudan,” he added.

He explained that the aim of sending another troop to Darfur just a week after a troop of same number was deployed in the region was due to the fact that there are four units in Darfur and the troops were placed on rotational operation of six months each.

23 yrs boy started importation with N10,450. Read his story here\! 

Six weeks ago, I couldn't perform in bed. Here's my breakthrough

How to start a profitable importation biz with as low as N10,000 only

Superb premature ejaculation spray. You 'll last 30minutes+

How to earn 40k-200k monthly from football matches almost on autopilot

3 Things I did to cure premature ejaculation after my wife left me

7 Simple yet amazing steps to earn over N200,000/monthly. Click here

How to get flat belly in just 9 days. Click here\!

Small manhood and premature ejaculation limited my performance for 4yrs\!

Discover How I made N2m in 35 days from importation business

Free Download\! How to earn N200,000 monthly from importation business

Click here now if you are interested in earning at least N7,500/daily 

Guaranteed money making online business plus bonuses

Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email

### About Author

Our Reporter




### Related Posts

  * July 14, 2015  0

## Suicide bomber kills self in Maiduguri as army warns residents over kid-bomber

  * July 14, 2015  0

## Okorocha reads riot act to Imo traditional rulers

  * July 14, 2015  0

## Why plot to unseat Ekweremadu will fail –Rep




###  6 Comments 

  1. Which Way Nigeria on  January 13, 2013 3:05 am

Yeye people, how many soldiers you deployed to calm down Boko Haram activities, torroising your own nation? You never remove the peak in your own eyes then you want to remove others, why?

Reply 

  2. adeyemi sandra on  January 13, 2013 5:34 am

Earn Instant $4.83 In your Liberty reserve Thru Currency Exchange  
Exchange earnings

Break into your Financial Freedom do not pay any one to teach about online business  
i have paid heavily to so many brokers and Forex marketers but got nothing and i am  
unveiling this here for free do not pay any one to get this, start making you own earnings  
online its free, All you need do, is just to get your calculator and follow me carefully  
as i outline the \(steps\) below. 

thelibertycashstreams-workfromhome\(.\)hpage\(.\)co\(.\)in

Reply 

  3. david on  January 13, 2013 7:30 am

Nigerians houses are on fire but they are after pursuing rats…hahahahaha\!\!\!

Reply 

  4. Amo on  January 13, 2013 1:10 pm

Soja com soja go i luv fela

Reply 

  5. sunday okereke on  January 13, 2013 2:58 pm

Eyes sarvice,imagine nigeria have not yet resolve it problem wet boko haram, yet they went head sending troops. In another country what a shame

Reply 

  6. Paschal on  January 13, 2013 9:19 pm

Our beloved nation is on fire & needs FBI &CTU intervention

Reply 




### Leave A Reply Cancel Reply

  * ### Today’s Edition

  * ### Premium

7 steps to belly fat reduction \(Free e-course delivered to you\)

Live, Study, Immigrate & Work in Canada legally

Lady makes 800k monthly with the most profitable online business 

  * ### Archives

July 2015 M T W T F S S  
« Jun      
 12345  
6789101112  
13141516171819  
20212223242526  
2728293031    
  



Enquiries 

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.  
Call Uche on +234-805-633-4351, or email:  
onlinerate@sunnewsonline  
OR \[email protected\]

Site Design by Zero-One
