Follow @vanguardngrnews

Mon 14 Nov 

About Us | Advertise With Us

  * Home
  * News
    * Headlines
  * Business
    * Finance
  * Technology
  * Politics
  * Sport
  * Entertainment
  * Style
    * Fashion Flair
    * Fashion Personality
    * My Style
    * Allure
  * Viewpoint
  * Editorial
  * Forum
  * Jobs



Equatorial Guineans back 2 terms for president Cleric to Jonathan: Jettison planned fuel subsidy removal

# Military can tackle internal security challenges, says GOC

On November 14, 2011 · In News

Tweet

Jos – Maj.-Gen. Adamu Marwa, the General Officer Commanding \(GOC\) 3 Armoured Division, has assured the nation that the Nigerian military is capable of tackling the current internal security challenges.

He said at the 3 Division Inter-Brigade Officers Combat Proficiency Competition on Monday in Jos that the military was also prepared to defend the country at all times.

“The 3 Division is doing everything possible to build a formidable army that is responsive to the internal security challenges currently confronting the country.

“It is important therefore that we must train, especially at this period, when we have challenges in terms of internal security operations. If we train them, they are better equipped to defend the nation.”

Marwa, represented by Air Commodore Davies Akpofure, Commander, 330 Nigerian Air Force Station, Jos, said the competition would improve the leadership qualities of Junior Commanders to meet future responsibilities.

He expressed the determination of the Nigerian Army to continue to cooperate with the civil authority in tackling internal security challenges in line with the constitutional provision.

The GOC urged the competing formations to take advantage of the competition to demonstrate their prowess and improve upon their 2010 performance.

“In any armed forces in any country, professional military education is a continuous process. There is the tactical level, operational level and the strategic level.

“The competition enhances the tactical level training for our junior commanders so that in a situation where they find themselves in battles, it will be easier for them to take command of forces.”

Marwa said the competition would enhance the quality of personnel to meet the desired constitutional objectives of the Nigerian Army.

Earlier, the 3 Division Garrison Commander, Brig.-Gen. Jatau Alexander, said the competition was a training exercise for young officers from Lieutenants to Major.

He said the competition would feature weapon handling, live shooting, obstacle crossing, combat swimming, map reading and radio communication.

Alexander advised the public to steer clear of the live shooting range in Miango, Jos, but urged them not to panic at the sight of large movement of troops around Jos.

The competing formations in the week-long competition are 21 Brigade, Maiduguri; 23 Brigade, Yola; 33 Artillery Brigade, Bauchi; and the 3 Division Garrison, Jos. \(NAN\)

Comments are moderated. Please keep them clean and brief.

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus>

  * ### News

    * Police recover N2m goods from suspected armed robbers
    * Owie wants OBJ prosecuted over toll gates’ dismantling
    * Returning pilgrims’ aircraft crash-lands in Kano
    * Tripoli asks Niger to rethink asylum for Kadhafi son
    * Akunyili vs Ngige: Court declares judgment Wednesday
    * Unibadan offers automatic scholarship to 75 first class graduates
    * Herbal medicine may cause more harm than good, says Nephrologist




SweetCrude  
Education  
Environment  
Motoring  
Metro  
Interview  
Labour  
Law & Human Rights  
Bus Stop Parliament  
Crime Guard  
Crime Alert

  
  


LifeStyle  
Health  
Travel & Tourism  
Vista  
Human Angle  
Is it Beyond Pardon?  
The Arts  
Life with treena Kwenta  
Dis N Dart  
Tummy Talk

Columns  
Monday  
Sport Bassey  
People & Politics  
Rational Perspectives   
Treena Kwenta  
  
Tuesday  
Tuesday Platform   
Pini Jason   
  
Wednesday  
Talking Point  
  


  
Thursday  
People & Politics  
Is'hag Modibbo Kawu  
The Hub  
  
Friday  
Sweet & Sour  
Onochie Anibeze  
My Layman's View  
Crisp Shots  
Tonye Princewill  
  
Saturday  
The Passing Scene  
Soul Kate  
Stomach Democracy  
  


  
Sunday  
Frankly Speaking  
Sunday Perspectives   
The Orbit  
The Spectrum  
Vista Woman  
Nigeria Today  
Voice of Reason  
Moment to Moment  
  
  
©2011 Vanguard Media  

